"Mr. Inglethorp," said Poirot, addressing him directly, "a very dark shadow is resting on this house...the shadow of murder."
Suddenly my attention was arrested by a weedy looking young man rushing down the street at a great pace.
I like you for that."
He looked up at my window as he passed, and I recognized him, though he had changed much in the fifteen years that had elapsed since we last met.
I suppose you know that she has married again?"
Did you notice if that was bolted too?"
Cynthia took the bottle and examined it with the severity of a judge.
groan, Alfred Inglethorp sank down again and buried his face in his hands. Poirot approached
What a net he has drawn around my poor John!
"Quite so, quite so," said Mr. Wells soothingly.
The symptoms appear from one to two hours after it has been swallowed.
We went out through that door, locking both it and that of Mrs. Inglethorp's room as before.
What then occasioned this sudden change of sentiment?
This employment requires precision of the fingers.
When I cited her and John Cavendish as being above suspicion?"
"Good," replied Poirot, folding up the paper again.
do say..." he lowered his voice cautiously..."that it's poison?" Poirot's face
"I have drawn certain conclusions...yes."
I wondered whether, if she had remained at Styles, the tragedy would have taken place, or would the man have feared her watchful eyes?
"I, also, am of your way of thinking.
I could have told him from the beginning that this obsession of his over the coffee was bound to end in a blind alley, but I restrained my tongue.
Fool that I was not to have thought of this possibility before, and what a relief for us all.
Assuredly, he is a man of method.
I thought I might as well go down to the village at once, and look up Poirot; but I met him half-way, coming up to the house, and at once gave him Dorcas's message.
With her hand on the handle, she turned her head over her shoulder, and beckoned to me.
My hostess turned to me.
The violence of Mrs. Inglethorp's attack seemed to be passing.
I began to stammer feebly that I hoped she hadn't thought...But again she stopped me, and her words were so unexpected that they quite drove Cynthia, and her troubles, out of my mind.
I did not trouble to correct the quotation. "You are
He darted from one object to the other with the agility of a grasshopper.
Poor Emily was never murdered until he came along.
Pretty clear case I should say."
The hand-writing is quite different from mine.
That's what happens when I'm not here to look after things."
I tried to forget the few words I had overheard; but, do what I would, I could not dismiss them altogether from my mind.
They are all busily battering at Mrs. Inglethorp's door.
It would be more likely to be a bit after four...not before it."
"The two often go together," said Poirot enigmatically.
Any doctor would tell you the same.
"Do you know what I think?"
Poirot looked out of the window.
They're a lot of sharks...all of them.
I asked, as we reached the door of the locked room.
Excuse me, mon ami, you dressed in haste, and your tie is on one side.
"You are sure it was Mr. Inglethorp's voice you heard?"
"But I had no idea he was a friend of yours."
And so, out of the whole bunch, I was the only one who could allow myself to be fond of her.
"Three, or even four doses, would not have resulted in death.
"As technically, of course, he was entitled......" He did not finish the sentence.
Observe the lamp...the chimney is broken in two places; they lie there as they fell.
I could have cleared him...though it might have meant a failure to convict the real criminals.
It is unparalleled for the mal de tete."
I was about to expound these theories to Poirot, when his own words distracted me.
A document of some kind, without doubt, possibly the scrap of paper Dorcas saw in her hand yesterday afternoon.
I had an impression of very blue eyes in a sunburnt face.
The weather had been perfectly fine for some days, and no ordinary boots would have left such a heavy deposit.
"Got a drop or two of petrol still, you see," he remarked.
Alfred Inglethorp sprang up again.
He had that little frown between the eyes that I knew so well.
John left me, and a few minutes later I saw him from my window walking slowly across the grass arm in arm with Cynthia Murdoch.
Mrs. Inglethorp had no candlestick in the room, only a reading-lamp."
We have to deal with a most clever and unscrupulous man, and we must use any means in our power...otherwise he will slip through our fingers.
I have kept them there myself.
There are times when it is one's duty to assert oneself.
"Tell me in your own words exactly what happened after that."
"But one thing does strike me.
Real crime...you'd know at once."
You owe everything to me!
It was unusually thick, quite unlike ordinary notepaper.
"Every single person who comes up here says that.
No, we're an impecunious lot.
No, they had not kept the letter.
There is absolutely no question as to the alibi!"
She ranged herself passionately on her husband's side, scorning the mere idea of his guilt, and fought for him tooth and nail.
My mother came to the rescue, and Cynthia has been with us nearly two years now.
Had he any idea of what I was about to say?
One thing is certain, she overheard a good deal more of that 'private conversation' than she was willing to admit."
That 'last link' he talked about was still lacking.
You ought to be ashamed of yourself, John Cavendish."
Mightn't be able to prove it to a pack of lawyers.
Unfortunately, he had met with no one on the way there or back who could vouch for the truth of his story, but luckily he had kept the note, and it would be produced as evidence.
Suddenly an idea struck me.
I was aware of other servants huddled together in the background, all eyes and ears.
We stared at one another blankly.
It'll be a tough job, though.
We hurried up the village, and turned in at the lodge gates.
Here, as we know, I was wrong, and I was forced to abandon that idea.
Don't you bother about anything.
Tell me, on Monday, not Tuesday, Dorcas, but Monday, the day before the tragedy, did anything go wrong with Mrs. Inglethorp's bell?"
There was a smile on her face, and her head was thrown back.
It added nothing to our knowledge of the tragedy.
But that will not occur.
After all, though he was old, Poirot had been a great man in his day.
"Come for a stroll, Hastings.
So the discovery of the charred fragment in the grate was no surprise to me.
She had something in her hand.
"You are not pleased with me, mon ami?"
"Did you not find it yourself?"
Mary Cavendish was standing in the doorway.
She was at that moment in a typical tetanic convulsion.
He turned to me abruptly.
At 4 o'clock, Mrs. Inglethorp quarrels with her son, and threatens to denounce him to his wife...who, wife...who, by the way, overheard the greater part of the conversation.
I inquired, as soon as we were protected from prying eyes by the leafy screen.
"Not when the servant Dorcas repeated certain fragments of the conversation...fragments conversation...fragments which you must have recognized?"
They were elicited subsequently at the trial by a process of long and tedious cross-examinations.
"When you finally left the room, did Mrs. Inglethorp bolt the door after you?"
As to the door being locked, it is a very ordinary lock.
Poirot was sitting by the table, his head buried in his hands.
"Of course Alfred Inglethorp murdered poor Emily...as I always told you he would."
His head was exactly the shape of an egg, and he always perched it a little on one side.
All the discoveries have been made by Japp, and Japp will take all the credit.
The Rollestons came over with the Conqueror...one of our oldest families."
He picked up his little suit-case, and we went out through the open window in the drawing-room.
As to the sleeping powders, I knew by this."
Poirot bundled everything out on the floor with scant ceremony.
"Well, in about half an hour.
She still looked agitated, and during the meal there was a somewhat constrained silence.
Do not grudge me a moment's satisfaction of the eye."
The young man came to a halt before Leastways Cottage, and, after hesitating a moment, pounded vigorously at the door.
I awaited his next question with impatience, but it disappointed me.
"Yes, I remember saying that.
He would call evidence to show that it was the prisoner who ultimately handed his stepmother her coffee on the fatal night.
Alfred Inglethorp replied imperturbably: "Mr. Mace must have been mistaken."
Poirot was sobered at once.
"You are going to leave him?"
Ought to be drawn and quartered, like in good old times."
"If he were arrested, he probably would speak, but I do not want it to come to that.
Then he turned to us.
You must see them, of course.
"By the way, Hastings, there is something I want you to do for me."
He checked the car suddenly, and glanced at his watch.
"Where's tea today...inside or out?"
"You've been entertaining a celebrity unawares," I replied.
A reading-lamp, some books, matches, a bunch of keys, and the crushed fragments of a coffee-cup lay scattered about.
It is retarded under certain conditions, none of which, however, appear to have been present in this case.
Just come off night duty.
On Monday Mrs. Inglethorp will take the last dose of her medicine.
Miss Howard occupied very much the same position, so I used her name instead."
"I don't know what to make of it.
There was, in fact, so much evidence against him that I was inclined to believe that he had not done it."
"No, right the other side of the room.
me, is there nothing familiar about the hand-writing of it?" "Not
A very nice gentleman he is, sir.
Either that or a fresh start altogether."
and stood over him. "Speak!" he
You see, under the terms of their father's will, while John inherited the property, Lawrence, at his stepmother's death, would come into a considerable sum of money.
The risk is practically nil.
What idiots we had been never to think of that fire as being incongruous!
We three sat for some time in silence.
And you are wrong in condemning it.
He took out the key from the lock, and passed it to me to inspect.
I paid very little attention to my mother's actual words."
The prisoner had, accordingly, gone to the appointed spot, and after waiting there vainly for half an hour had returned home.
Perhaps you would like to come with me?"
And never have I needed that more than now!"
"Had a good walk with Dr.
She's the mater's factotum, companion, Jack of all trades!
It was, to my mind, a very fair and equitable distribution."
"At any rate," she burst out, "I've spoken my mind!"
"I do not think"...Poirot watched him narrowly..."that you quite realize the unfavourable nature of your evidence at the inquest. Mr. Inglethorp,
Do you know, my friend, I remembered that earlier in the morning, when we had been there together, I had straightened all the objects on the mantel-piece.
Of course, there was no possibility of being able permanently to conceal Dr. Bauerstein's arrest from her.
Do you know there was a whole crowd staring in at the lodge gates this morning.
If I'm not greatly mistaken, he's got something up his sleeve.
I've had enough of the fellow hanging about.
Suddenly I realized that Alfred Inglethorp was not with us...that he alone had given no sign of his presence.
Mrs. Inglethorp said something...I do not remember exactly what...about causing scandal between husband and wife."
that I know of." "Do
"Well, Bauerstein, you are in a plight," said John, strolling in from the hall.
Your help has been of the most invaluable.
I was still staring, when I was startled and recalled by the verdict being given: "Wilful Murder against some person or persons unknown."
After which piece of moralizing, he resumed his search.
The evening passed pleasantly enough; and I dreamed that night of that enigmatical woman, Mary Cavendish.
Go down to the others."
"What do you mean...there was one?
I believe she has passed quite a stiff exam."
I had seen very little of him for some years.
In truth, he presented a sorry spectacle, being literally plastered with mud.
He seemed very excited and restless.
But after the cheese and biscuits had been handed round, and Dorcas had left the room, Poirot suddenly leant forward to Mrs. Cavendish.
"There is nothing more to be done here, I think, unless"...he stared earnestly and long at the dead ashes in the grate.
"No, I do not think so."
I locked it, out of precaution, this morning."
The sunlight, piercing through the branches, turned the auburn of her hair to quivering gold.
"Yes," said the lawyer, "it is quite possible that there may be a later will than the one in my possession."
I stood faithfully at my post.
"No," I confessed, "I never thought of such a thing."
In his chest of drawers, hidden beneath some underclothing, we found: first, a pair of gold-rimmed pince-nez similar to those worn by Mr. Inglethorp, these were exhibited, secondly, this phial."
It was ordered by letter, and a postal order was enclosed.
I did not see Mrs. Cavendish until lunch-time, when she volunteered to take me for a walk, and we spent a charming afternoon roaming in the woods, returning to the house about five.
I had risen when Cynthia did, John was close by me.
She is so terribly bitter against him."
In fact, I was at peace with the world.
"Oh, I suppose she was after your time.
Of course I had a watch kept on Mr. Inglethorp, hoping that sooner or later he would lead me to the hiding-place.
"The fire burns...and it destroys.
"Mademoiselle Cynthia was not at lunch today?
"And I told you I'd help you with pleasure...to hang Alfred Inglethorp."
"Where did it come from?"
"Thank you very much, sir.
"You argue like a child.
What had happened was plain to me, for not two minutes before I had placed my little case on the table near the window, and the table, tilting up, had deposited it upon the floor on precisely the identical spot.
Then came the sensation of the day.
But, seeing it was Mr. Inglethorp of the Hall, I thought there was no harm in it.
"But Emily herself......" She broke off.
As she left the room, Miss Howard's face changed.
"John was so kind as to break that to me this morning."
What had induced the deceased to make a fresh will, with the old one still extant, he could not say.
What more could she have told us, if she had had time?
Having elicited from Dorcas how she had been awakened by the violent ringing of her mistress's bell, and had subsequently roused the household, he passed to the subject of the quarrel on the preceding afternoon.
"You found these two objects, you say, in the chest of drawers.
"Another point...how did you know that the key of the despatch-case had been lost?"
Poirot alone seemed perfectly at his ease, and dusted a forgotten corner of the bookcase.
The second 'scandal' she spoke of was not the same as the first...and it concerned herself!
He was frowning perplexedly, and I drew a deep breath of relief, for the terrible thought that had flashed across my mind was this: that Dr. Bauerstein might have had an accomplice.
"Well," said Miss Howard, drawing off her gardening gloves, "I'm inclined to agree with you."
"The one that Miss Howard......" "Exactly," said John, with rather unnecessary abruptness.
She did not return with us, having been asked to a supper party, and to remain the night with some friends who had been acting with her in the tableaux.
He's helping us, you know, Evie."
And, then, there was that rather over-vehement over-vehement hatred of hers!
"Still, as it happens, the others were not there?"
No, the sixth point I will keep to myself for the present."
do not see any reason why I should not answer your question. By
A very clever man...a Jew, of course."
Well, that simplifies matters for us."
Yes, sir; it always was.
They were supposed to be deadly enemies, and until John Cavendish was safely convicted they neither of them dared risk a meeting.
I remembered how Poirot had relied on my diplomacy.
And, as he withdrew, her love awoke.
As we went home, Mary Cavendish spoke bitterly against the prosecuting counsel.
Why was I to stand in this particular spot on guard?
Will you describe them to me?"
Suddenly Mrs. Inglethorp awakens and is seized with an alarming paroxysm.
Miss Howard blinked, and a new note crept into the gruffness of her voice.
He was naturalized about fifteen years ago.
John fell back a pace.The colour ebbed slowly from his face.
"On top of the prisoner's wardrobe?"
He jumped up and took her cup.
Was I to report who came or went?
What was Mary Cavendish's concern in the matter?
She was smiling in her quiet way.
He seemed absorbed in thought; so much so that my curiosity was aroused.
Finding the case locked, he was obliged to force it, thus betraying his presence.
No woman could act her part with that icy unconcern.
There would have to be a long period of chronic symptoms which would at once have attracted my attention.
"Because your instinct is not against Mr.
That door was also bolted, as I had stated.
"What do you mean by you 'suppose'?
"Dr. Bauerstein was saying yesterday that, owing to the general ignorance of the more uncommon poisons among the medical profession, there were probably countless cases of poisoning quite unsuspected."
them beyond fail?" "Oh, yes;
Mr. Mace began at once."Oh,
"He does not take coffee."
Alfred, darling, Mr. Hastings...my husband."
Yet beautiful women had been known to poison.
However, he went to the length of unbolting it, and opening and shutting it several times; this he did with the utmost precaution against making any noise.
"Above all, Mr. Hastings, watch that devil...her husband!"
In this instance, there was a man ready to his hand.
Six persons had taken coffee, and six cups were duly found.
"I am sure of it."
We know all that can be known of the subsequent happenings.
John flung the match into an adjacent flower bed, a proceeding which was too much for Poirot's feelings.
"Because if Mr. Inglethorp knew that his wife would be poisoned last night, he would certainly have arranged to be away from the house.
murmured Poirot to himself, as he brought back the replenished cup.
She was looking dreadful...so white and upset.
We were silent for a minute or two, and then, glancing in the direction of Mary Cavendish, and dropping her voice, Cynthia said: "Mr.
John stuck his head in at this juncture, and invited us both to come up to Mrs. Inglethorp's room, as he and Mr. Wells had finished looking through the desk in the boudoir.
"Come now," urged Poirot encouragingly.
Had he foreseen this arrest?
We must be so intelligent that he does not suspect us of being intelligent at all."
I followed Cynthia and her friend and they pointed out the different wards to me.
"Dear me," I murmured, "so that is the explanation of your extraordinary behaviour.
Her voice mocked at my prudence.
You know, Emily was a selfish old woman in her way.
Can we say positively that she was away from Styles on the night of the murder?"
It may turn out to be a piece of one of Mrs. Inglethorp's own dresses, and quite unimportant.
"No sugar," said Cynthia, watching him, as he picked up the sugar-tongs.
"What time did you go out last evening?"
I pass over Alfred Inglethorp, who acted the bereaved widower in a manner that I felt to be disgusting in its hypocrisy.
"They are like that...les femmes!"
And now, today, he puts forward a suggestion that he himself must have known was ridiculous.
"Can't you go a little further, Mr. Poirot?
After all, we are only four miles from the coast."
I accordingly secured a sample of that cocoa, and sent it to be analysed."
"Yes," she said meditatively; then suddenly dropped her voice.
Lawrence was turning a sickly greenish colour.
There is nothing weak-minded or degenerate about Miss Howard.
He unlocked a little drawer, and took out some photographs which he laid on the table.
"Believe me, Miss Howard," said Poirot very earnestly, "if Mr. Inglethorp is the man, he shall not escape me.
"You consider her vehemence unnatural?"
Why did Dr. Bauerstein seem so...peculiar?"
"We went on with the begonias, sir."
I don't know anything about the coffee-cups, except that we've got some that are never used, which are a perfect dream!
"They are two delightful women!"
In a few minutes a bell rang violently.
I don't know how to tell you..." "What is it, Dorcas?"
They always take out the key before leaving the room."
"No, for it is still perceptibly damp and smells of coffee.
In answer to the Coroner's question, she told how, her alarm clock having aroused her at 4.30 as usual, she was dressing, when she was startled by the sound of something heavy falling.
It has been recently done; is it not so?"
It seems inconceivable that she should be shielding Alfred Inglethorp.
Coffee had been brought in for seven persons, not six, for Dr.Bauerstein had been there that evening.
He's going out of the gate.
You were in a towering rage.
The snort Miss Howard gave was truly magnificent.
John Cavendish had turned to Poirot.
The paper was safe where it was; since no one had thought of looking there in the first week, it was not likely they would do so afterwards.
Find out how he did it.
"I am absolutely serious, my friend."
"Tell me...you see now that he must not be arrested?"
John turned to me, taking out his cigarette-case, and lighting a cigarette as he did so.
'Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.'
She thinks of nothing but her husband, and the terrible fate that is hanging over him."
Would not Mrs. Inglethorp have preferred to go unavenged rather than have such terrible dishonour fall upon the name of Cavendish.
"And why would it not be easy?
"No, but......" "In fact, during the whole afternoon, you were only alone for a couple of minutes, and it happened...I say, it happened...to be during those two minutes that you displayed your 'natural interest' in Hydro-chloride of Strychnine?"
"Mrs. Inglethorp was in the habit of drinking a cup of cocoa in the middle of the night.
"Tell me, Hastings, you yourself...have you no suspicions of anybody?"
"It is indeed mon ami Hastings!"
Of course, it will be generally known tomorrow."
Still, the fervour of his words went towards the appeasing of my just displeasure.
For about ten minutes he sat in dead silence, perfectly still, except for several expressive motions of his eyebrows, and all the time his eyes grew steadily greener.
"Well, sir, I happened to be going along the hall outside yesterday......" "What time was that?"
He proposed to call witnesses to show how the prisoner, a profligate and spendthrift, had been at the end of his financial tether, and had also been carrying on an intrigue with a certain Mrs. Raikes, a neighbouring farmer's wife.
You abandon it in the war-time, eh?"
"His suggestion that his mother might have been poisoned accidentally by means of the tonic she was taking, that did not strike you as strange...hein?"
It seems incredible that a woman like Mrs. Cavendish, proud and reticent to the last degree, should interfere so violently in what was certainly not her affair."
Ah, if I only knew.
It is merely a note asking me to call upon her this morning, as she wanted my advice on a matter of great importance."
Lady Tadminster, our Member's wife...she was the late Lord Abbotsbury's daughter...does the same.
Things are moving quickly, my friend."
"I have been visiting an old woman in the village," she explained, "and as Lawrence told me you were with Monsieur Poirot I thought I would call for you."
With infinite care, he took a drop or two from the grounds in each cup, sealing them up in separate test tubes, tasting each in turn as he did so.
Your mistress lies dead, and it is necessary that we should know all...if we are to avenge her.
The man will be out of the country by then.
"My mother's lawyer," he explained.
He stretched out his hands.
Mrs. Cavendish, however, was a lady who liked to make her own plans, and expected other people to fall in with them, and in this case she certainly had the whip hand, namely: the purse strings.
Elizabeth Wells, second housemaid at Styles, stated that after she had gone to bed she remembered that she had bolted the front door, instead of leaving it on the latch as Mr. Inglethorp had requested.
I was told there had been a quarrel between my mother and Mr. Inglethorp, and it never occurred to me that such was not really the case."
"Show him into my study."
She jumped up promptly, and something in her manner reminded me that her position was a dependent one, and that Mrs. Inglethorp, kind as she might be in the main, did not allow her to forget it.
"What can be the matter?"
"Do you think he believes Lawrence guilty?"
You can see all the outside wards there."
I should like to ask a few questions of the parlourmaid...Dorcas, her name is, is it not?"
It was a glorious night, hot and still.
Mary Cavendish entered at that moment.
We shall be pinched at first, of course, because, as I once told you, I am in a bit of a hole financially myself.
If they had left it alone, it is possible the crime might never have been brought home to them.
"Mr. Cavendish, I have some important business in Tadminster.
John opened the door of his room.
Had they any clue, or would the whole thing remain in the category of undiscovered crimes?
"Well," he said at last, "let us go, mon ami."
Miss Howard shook hands with Poirot, but glanced suspiciously over her shoulder at John.
"And the boudoir window was open, was it not?"
He started slightly, as the damning words fell from the young man's lips.
He spoke a good bit lower than she did...but she answered: 'How dare you?
"My friend," besought Poirot, "I implore you, do not enrage yourself!
We shouldn't have been here as soon as this even, if it hadn't been for the fact that there was a smart doctor on the spot, who gave us the tip through the Coroner.
"So he has found the extra coffee-cup.
"Sister should read the rules outside the door."
There are no means of destroying it; and he dare not keep it.
Deceased had already made a will in his favour before her marriage, but...and Mr. Philips wagged an expressive forefinger...the prisoner was not aware of that.
John Cavendish joined us, and one or two of the servants were standing round in a state of awe-stricken excitement.
Then, with a sudden cry that startled me, she cried out: "No, no...not that...not that!"
"I really do not think we need trouble you further on that point.
He left me very badly off.
I never thought of that."
"Yes, sir, it was put in her room every evening, and she warmed it up in the night...whenever she fancied it."
She keeps the fatal letter."
Rather ostentatiously, I stepped forward, crackling some dead branches with my feet as I did so.
"No, Cynthia is a protegee of my mother's, the daughter of an old schoolfellow of hers, who married a rascally solicitor.
Imagine her feelings when her mother-in-law is suddenly taken ill and dies, and immediately after she hears the word 'Poison'!
We had reached the cottage.
"You'll be able to keep up the place all right?"
He took the path through the plantation, and we walked down to the village through the woods which bordered one side of the estate.
Have you seen the little fellow safely back to his cottage?
Yes, altogether I was mistaken.
How he could be such a fool beats me!"
And then, suddenly, a dreadful possibility flashed through my mind.
"Madame, I have your permission to hold a little reunion in the salon?
"I've been looking for you," I remarked untruthfully.
I must be mad to think of such a thing."
"Hullo, Evie, here's our wounded hero!
The thermometer registered 80 degrees in the shade.
She studied me curiously for a minute or two, and then said, to my great surprise: "You are loyal to your friend.
His wife followed him, murmuring something about persuading Mrs. Inglethorp to think better of it.
"How do you make that out?"
He turned it over in his hands, examining it closely.
I can't help feeling she'd do anything against him.
Poirot looked at me very earnestly, and again shook his head.
An appreciative listener is always stimulating, and I described, in a humorous manner, certain incidents of my Convalescent Home, in a way which, I flatter myself, greatly amused my hostess.
We will say that she is seeking for something and has not yet found it.
On one point, Poirot seemed to have a curious obsession.
"I'm sure you are mistaken.
September found us all in London.
No, he was the last person she would admit."
As we went up the stairs, John looked back to the dining-room door, and lowered his voice confidentially: "Look here, what's going to happen when these two meet?"
"It would either be put in his room or sent on after him."
"What a funny time to come."
The hand-writing experts were called upon for their opinion of the signature of 'Alfred Inglethorp' in the chemist's poison register.
But it cleared my mind of many misconceptions, and left me free to see other facts in their 1 significance."
But she wasn't going to own that I'd been right.
"You saw some salt on the tray?"
I was amused to notice that he stowed away the used matches most carefully in a little china pot.
I suppose she forgot, or didn't think she was likely to die...anyway, I am not provided for!
Not only was it entirely circumstantial, but the greater part of it was practically unproved.
"Instinct is a marvellous thing," mused Poirot.
"Did Mr. Inglethorp know of it?"
There was hardly a breath of wind, the very chirp of the birds was faint and subdued.
It was neither more nor less than the deliberate poisoning of a fond and trusting woman by the stepson to whom she had been more than a mother.
Dorcas came running out to meet us.
It came quite as a surprise to Wells...and to John Cavendish also.
The 16th of July fell on a Monday.
His face looked weary and haggard.
A vague suspicion of every one and everything filled my mind.
Your brother has no children.
So I, accordingly, went that way.
"On Monday evening last, did you purchase strychnine for the purpose of poisoning a dog?"
"I put it to you that you did do so?"
One, I grant you, but both......!"
But I suppose we were not well matched.
"That bears out my little idea entirely."
you not think that it bears a marked resemblance to your own hand-writing...carelessly hand-writing...carelessly disguised?" "No,
"Will you take Mrs. Inglethorp her coffee, Cynthia?
We were all together the whole time."
"Then you knew what you were going to find?"
Never have I seen such a ghastly look on any man's face.
He drifted into an entanglement with Mrs. Raikes, and she deliberately cultivated the friendship of Dr. Bauerstein.
To take the fragment of green material first, I found it caught in the bolt of the communicating door between that room and the adjoining one occupied by Mademoiselle Cynthia.
Now your help may be very valuable to me.
And I...I, too, have an instinct.
Mrs. Inglethorp was lying on the bed, her whole form agitated by violent convulsions, in one of which she must have overturned the table beside her.
"My brother Lawrence is convinced that we are making a fuss over nothing.
I would like to ask you one question.
"I should like to speak to you in private," said Dr. Bauerstein.
I lowered my voice to a whisper.
Sir Ernest merely smiled, and noted with a sharp eye that John's protest had produced a very favourable impression on the jury.
Wilkins hadn't an idea of such a thing, until Bauerstein put it into his head.
"I did not really mean to come in, but Mr. Inglethorp insisted."
"And you remember nothing at all?
The sooner I left her house the better.
She died when I was quite a little child.
A faint expression of relief swept over John's face.
"What have you, my friend," he cried, "that you remain there like...how do you say it?...ah, yes, the stuck pig?"
"How did you come to look for it?"
She sat up at once, drew her hand away, and said, with some asperity: "Don't be silly!"
Alfred Inglethorp returns to Styles.
We may hunt together again, who knows?
destroyed...but is it destroyed? Is there
If we are right, Miss Howard, on whose side are you then?"
I happen to know for a fact that, far from being in love with her, he positively dislikes her."
You rushed down to Styles, and found it still there?"
Time will show which of us is right.
Look, there is John...and Miss Howard..." Cynthia nodded rather gloomily.
"Why not now as much as before?
I don't see how anyone could blame us for jumping to the conclusions we did.
"See; say that it is I who have committed this murder, I can think of seven most plausible stories!
"Why do you know so positively?"
Events proved that I was right in my supposition."
I must fix it up with him.
At 5 o'clock, Dorcas finds her mistress in a state of considerable agitation, with a slip of paper...'a letter,' Dorcas thinks...in her hand, and it is then that she orders the fire in her room to be lighted.
"I suppose it is the sample of cocoa."
"There's only one thing I can't make out, why didn't he destroy it at once when he got hold of it?"
Besides, a father confessor should be elderly, it is not at all the role for a young man.
At once I realized that I was in a very awkward predicament.
He addressed himself to John: "Mr. Cavendish, I should like your consent to a postmortem."
She demanded it from Mrs. Inglethorp who assured her, quite truly, that it had nothing to do with that matter.
"But I don't see anything to laugh at.
Amid breathless excitement, he held out three thin strips of paper.
"Is it not customary for anyone purchasing poison to sign a book?"
The intense interest aroused in the public by what was known at the time as 'The Styles Case' has now somewhat subsided.
In any case, he had had ample time to introduce the poison.
I fancied that between these two there existed very little sympathy.
"Yes, but Miss Howard did not know of the paper's existence.
Miss Howard goes back to Middlingham.
I would never have dreamt of suspecting the doctor, had not Poirot put it into my head.
"She missed it yesterday at lunch-time, sir, and told me to look carefully for it.
"He's staying in the village doing a rest cure, after a bad nervous breakdown.
But we nailed him in Antwerp...thanks to Mr. Poirot here."
No, what he is trying for is to create such confusion in the minds of the jury that they are divided in their opinion as to which brother did it.
And it came to me sudden like that there might be a green dress amongst them.
Unwittingly, I had hit upon a sovereign remedy for her tears.
But was the coffee poisoned, or was it not?
Poirot spread out his hands apologetically.
The phial was that already recognized by the chemist's assistant, a tiny bottle of blue glass, containing a few grains of a white crystalline powder, and labelled: "Strychnine Hydrochloride.
Do you remember reproving me for taking the household into my confidence on the subject?"
"That's all very well," I objected, "but how are you going to decide what is important, and what isn't?
The papers, of course, had been full of the tragedy.
Never cleared the coffee-cups away last night.
I woke up with a start.
I myself, in company with the police, went to the deceased's room, and whilst there I, apparently accidentally, knocked over the table in question, but found that, as I had expected, Monsieur Hastings had heard no sound at all.
Ah, but I am vexed with myself!
"John will show you your room.
For the convenience of the reader I will recapitulate the incidents of those days in as exact a manner as possible.
"I did, but it contains no information.
A man in love is a sorry spectacle.
There's one thing, Inglethorp himself won't be too keen on meeting her."
How she would have gaped if she had realized that her "coarse kitchen salt" was strychnine, one of the most deadly poisons known to mankind.
Somebody ought to be keeping an eye on the fellow.
He looked so crestfallen and abashed that I felt quite sorry, though I still thought my rebuke a just and wise one.
Poirot seemed to follow my thoughts.
I shot a quick glance at Mary.
As a rule, he surrounded his wife with little attentions, placing a cushion at her back, and altogether playing the part of the devoted husband.
Poirot looked inquiringly at me.
'Darling Alfred'...'dearest Alfred'...'wicked calumnies' ...'wicked lies'...'wicked woman'...to accuse her 'dear husband'!
Poirot delicately dipped his finger into liquid, and tasted it gingerly.
That I have sworn, as my friend Hastings here knows.
And I venture to think your poor lady would have felt the same.
However, the other young lady was most kind.
Still, I shrank from blurting it out.
Possibly she dispensed his medicines for him, or she may have taken the idea from one of the many books lying about when Mademoiselle Cynthia was studying for her exam.
"You are annoyed, is it not so?"
"Well, I have a fancy for having it analysed again, that is all."
"Dr. Bauerstein considered it advisable."
"Mr. Inglethorp and Miss Howard."
Think now, did I ever say to you that I believed John Cavendish guilty?
But it was only her purse they were after.
"And really it's a great relief to think he's going, Hastings," continued my honest friend.
The door into the hall was a wide one.
all my years of devotion go for nothing."
Then catching sight of Dorcas, the parlourmaid, going into the dining-room, she called to her to bring some stamps into the boudoir.
He winked at me knowingly.
And in a lower voice: "He is also Coroner...you Coroner...you understand.
"Yes, I can't help doing that.
"We shall have a thunderstorm."
I could hear Poirot shouting and expounding.
As we entered the hall, Mrs. Inglethorp came out of her boudoir.
She had been their kind and generous benefactress.
And...ah, by the way, I have a word of caution to give you, my friend.
"Seeing it on the tray, sir."
"Well, what time was the coffee served?"
"Well, sir, not very often nowadays, though from time to time we do have what the young gentlemen call 'a dress-up night.'
I repeated myself several times, and occasionally had to go back to some detail that I had forgotten.
At present we are all thinking so much, and saying so little."
Of the order in which you present them, I say nothing...truly, it is deplorable!
"A light green, sir; a sort of chiffon, they call it."
Dorcas was looking very curiously at him and, to tell the truth, so was I.
When we reached the house, my little friend waved aside Mary's offer of tea.
I saw him put it down there."
"And supposing the Coroner's jury returns a verdict of Wilful Murder against Alfred Inglethorp.
Miss Cynthia, she was what they call an Apache, or some such name...a Frenchified sort of cut-throat, I take it to be.
You are actually playing into the criminal's hands."
"Well, my friend, I saw there was just one chance.
"It was very likely done last night.
Already footsteps are echoing along the gallery which connects the two wings.
"That's Dr. Bauerstein," said John shortly.
If he was going to take the matter that way, it was no good arguing with him.
I remained by the door, fearing to obliterate any clues.
I turned to Lawrence, to suggest that I had better leave them now that there was no further need of my services, but the words were frozen on my lips.
There are other explanations besides that of imbecility," I remarked.
I looked everywhere for it."
"Well," I said, encouraged, "as the person who entered did not do so by the window, nor by miraculous means, it follows that the door must have been opened from inside by Mrs. Inglethorp herself.
A car would do it in half an hour.
The tragedy will not take place until nearly a fortnight later.
Poirot had placed our two chairs in front of the open window which commanded a view of the village street.
An imperious wave of his hand drove us all to the door.
So, I noticed, did several of the jury.
It struck me that he might look natural on a stage, but was strangely out of place in real life.
Inglethorp was indeed creating a bad impression.
Annie was a fine, strapping girl, and was evidently labouring under intense excitement, mingled with a certain ghoulish enjoyment of the tragedy.
He had taken it into his long head that Mademoiselle Cynthia was in love with Monsieur John.
This concluded Dr. Bauerstein's evidence.
"I left something to be analysed."
I said, looking out of the window.
She is seized with panic, and under its influence she hurries downstairs, and quickly drops the coffee-cup and saucer used by Mademoiselle Cynthia into a large brass vase, where it is discovered later by Monsieur Lawrence.
"But I did, my friend.
But no...her zeal for good works was too great.
Guess at her relief when strychnine is mentioned, and she discovers that after all the tragedy is not her doing.
You're not a connoisseur, are you, Hastings?"
"You're all off your heads.
We must delay our proceedings a few minutes until Mr. Inglethorp arrives.
"Styles is really a glorious old place," I said to John.
And the cup on the mantel-piece, half drunk, that would be Mr. Lawrence Cavendish's.
"I am not in the habit of listening to private conversations."
"In the event of a parcel arriving for him whilst he was away, what would be done with it?"
What could be easier than quietly to dissolve one or more of those powders in Mrs. Inglethorp's large sized bottle of medicine when it came from Coot's?
"Has anyone else in the house got a green dress?"
I leave it in your hands.
You remained where you were?"
At last he heaved a deep sigh.
For a moment we sat and stared at her.
3"...I paused for some time..."there seem to be a lot of confused finger-marks, but here, very distinctly, are No. 1's." "Overlapping
"We must try and break the door in, I suppose.
"But you yourself suggested that possibility to Mr.
She would naturally open the door to her own husband."
Lawrence did not know at all what I meant; but, on reflection, he came to the conclusion that if he could find an extra coffee-cup anywhere his lady love would be cleared of suspicion. And
"It could be hushed up."
I thought of the white-haired old lady in the big house, and that vivid wicked little face that had just smiled into ours, and a vague chill of foreboding crept over me.
I couldn't believe it at the time."
It may have been my fancy, but she, too, was looking odd and disturbed.
Well, we will come in and interview the brave Dorcas."
'Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.'
It was 1 that I did not quite gather its purport, but I flattered myself that by Lawrence's reply, and perhaps a little skillful cross-examination on my part, I should soon perceive its significance.
So I dusted it off with my apron, and took it in."
Miss Howard produced the letter written to her by Mrs. Inglethorp on the evening of the 17th.
First he crushed the coffee-cup to powder under his feet, remembering that she had gone up with his mother the night before, and he determined that there should be no chance of testing its contents.
"But it was a glorious day!"
He glanced deprecatingly at the Coroner, who replied briskly: "Certainly, Mr. Cavendish, we are here to arrive at the truth of this matter, and welcome anything that may lead to further elucidation."
The man's twenty years younger than you, and don't you fool yourself as to what he married you for.
I conjectured, and conjectured rightly, that these words were addressed, not to her husband, but to Mr. John Cavendish.
Manning's eye swept over him with a faint contempt.
"Unfortunately, I have no proof beyond my surmise, unless......" With sudden energy, he caught me by the arm, and whirled me down the hall, calling out in French in his excitement: "Mademoiselle Dorcas, Mademoiselle Dorcas, un moment, s'il vous plait!"
She brought it down with her every morning, and took it up every night."
The deceased, he said, suffered from a weak heart, but otherwise enjoyed perfect health, and was of a cheerful and well-balanced disposition.
This time it is a question of ideas."
Have I no right, Mary?"
"Then I must speak for you."
"You remember my speaking of my friend Poirot?
Naturally it was very annoying for the Cavendishes.
I shook my head helplessly.
The following morning, Mrs. Inglethorp stayed in bed to breakfast, as she was rather overtired; but she appeared in her briskest mood about 12.30, and swept Lawrence and myself off to a luncheon party.
But it is truly an ingenious supposition."
He was white as chalk, the candle he held in his shaking hand was sputtering onto the carpet, and his eyes, petrified with terror, or some such kindred emotion, stared fixedly over my head at a point on the further wall.
Was it a sudden decision on his part, or had he already made up his mind when he parted from me a few hours earlier?
Indeed, I had never known him particularly well.
In another ten minutes, we were racing down the park and along the high road to Tadminster.
"I understand," I said, "but...but don't do anything rash."
But it was the label that was attracting Poirot's attention.
"It means that she has discovered Monsieur Lawrence does not dislike her as much as she thought," replied Poirot philosophically.
"Then there is Mrs. Cavendish," continued Poirot.
But no, it was not to be.
"Then, all the time, it was in the spill vase in Mrs. Inglethorp's bedroom, under our very noses?"
"Yes, that's possible," admitted John.
He opened a drawer, and took out a small despatch-case, then turned to me.
The prosecution averred that on Monday, July 16th, the prisoner had entered the chemist's shop in the village, disguised as Mr. Inglethorp.
And, in this case, there is terribly little evidence.
"When I went to shut up, sir.
As he spoke the last words, we drew up in front of the fine old house.
I was recalled to other matters by a frightful row going on below.
I faced the problem from a new standpoint.
There is no dog at Styles, except an outdoor sheepdog, which is in perfect health."
We will proceed to the chateau, and study matters on the spot.
It was produced; and, with a few words of stern censure, the Coroner dismissed the wretched Mr. Mace.
His next proceeding was to take out a little notebook.
Luckily, he took it for granted that I had only just come upon the scene.
Looking at the matter psychologically, I drew one deduction which I was convinced was correct.
It is always wise to suspect everybody until you can prove logically, and to your own satisfaction, that they are innocent.
"You yourself did not happen to notice, madame, when you entered Mrs. Inglethorp's room, whether that door was bolted or not?"
I took my stand from the first.
Towards what end they were working, we did not know.
"My poor wife," he murmured.
By bringing disgrace upon our name!'
She went into the boudoir again, and Cynthia stared after her.
Her beauty, perhaps, as she sat there, with the sunlight glinting down on her head; perhaps the sense of relief at encountering someone who so obviously could have no connection with the tragedy; perhaps honest pity for her youth and loneliness.
I don't see why he wished to be arrested?"
Hastings, this affair is very deep."
Not precisely young and beautiful, but as game as they make them."
"There was a certain rumour......" "A most malicious and utterly untrue one," interrupted Alfred Inglethorp in an agitated voice.
This possibility was confirmed by a further circumstance.
An assistant from Parkson's, Theatrical Costumiers, testified that on June 29th, they had supplied a black beard to Mr. L. Cavendish, as requested.
"No, no," I cried eagerly, "you need have no fear of that.
"He's not in the house."
As we drove through the village, I remembered that I wanted some stamps, so accordingly we pulled up at the post office.
The room was dimly lighted.
Evidently there was a likelihood of John Cavendish being acquitted.
Evelyn Howard was called and, after being examined on other points, was questioned as to the parcel.
put it to you that it is your own hand-writing!" "No."
"How do you know that letter came from Styles?
He wished to be arrested.
Now, if it was Lawrence, Mary Cavendish's conduct was just as inexplicable.
My jaw dropped involuntarily, and he said at once: "No, mon ami, I am not in my second childhood!
You will not be able to help yourself.
Surely he could not be unaware of the fact, conceal it as we would.
"How did you know that Mrs. Inglethorp took sleeping powders?"
At that moment, Dr. Bauerstein pushed his way authoritatively into the room.
Supper is at half-past seven.
"Do you young people want lights, or do you enjoy the twilight?"
He would direct their attention to the fact that the evidence against Mr. Lawrence Cavendish was quite as strong, if not stronger than that against his brother.
"And you have known this all along?"
After breakfast, Dorcas came up to me rather mysteriously, and asked if she might have a few words with me.
I remembered Mrs. Inglethorp's dying words.
"Well, Monsieur Poirot," said Miss Howard impatiently, "what is it?
I noticed that John's manner was somewhat unusual.
Poirot remained lost in thought for a few minutes.
You observed that it had a piece of twisted wire through the handle.
Those are her only times off."
Did he realize, I wondered, how closely the halter was being drawn around his neck?
He got up and laid his hand on my shoulder.
Haven't I always told you he would murder her in her bed?
It wasn't that...but I couldn't explain.
Surely the suspicion in the atmosphere must warn him that he was already a marked man.
There was no getting away from that.
Suddenly clasping me in his arms, he kissed me warmly on both cheeks, and before I had recovered from my surprise ran headlong from the room.
Poirot politely set chairs for every one.
most serious of all things hangs in the balance." "And that
We arrived back in a very cheerful mood.
To make up successfully as one of these two in broad daylight, it would need an actor of genius, and a certain initial facial resemblance.
"I should say"...the doctor was continuing..."that I would have been considerably surprised at any other result." "Why?" "Simply
But now, as I strolled out on the lawn, still nursing a grudge against my friend's high-handedness, I saw Lawrence on the croquet lawn, aimlessly knocking a couple of very ancient balls about, with a still more ancient mallet.
"Was not that...pardon the question, Mr. Cavendish...rather unfair to her other stepson, Mr. Lawrence Cavendish?"
"Mon ami," replied Poirot gravely, "when you find that people are not telling you the truth...look out!
"Don't mean the police, but the people that are right in it.
How he twisted every little fact until he made it seem what it wasn't!"
"Well, we might just see."
"Look here, Mary, there's the deuce of a mess.
I have found it hard to forgive the things you said against my dear husband but I am an old woman very fond of you, Yours affectionately, Emily Inglethorpe It was handed to the jury who scrutinized it attentively.
"I've told Mary to keep them apart if she can."
She glanced round hastily to make sure there was no one else in the room, and quickly produced an old sheet of brown paper.
"Is it possible that she could have swallowed the poison by accident?"
Mrs. Inglethorp always had an extra large amount of medicine made up at a time, as she dealt with Coot's, the Cash Chemists in Tadminster.
As we entered the large hall, John beckoned us both into the smoking-room.
Well, sir, as I said, I happened to be passing along, when I heard voices very loud and angry in here.
"Who put it in the chest, I wonder?"
Later in the evening, he had sought admission to her room, on which occasion, no doubt, he found an opportunity of destroying the will which, as far as he knew, would render the one in his favour valid.
"Yes, I believe they were at it yesterday afternoon.
"In that case, I have no alternative but to agree."
She stopped suddenly, and looked up at me.
Mrs. Cavendish came in just then, so she didn't say any more."
She was so self-sacrificing...such a noble character.
The Scotland Yard men came and went, examining, questioning, lynx-eyed and reserved of tongue.
"Sit down here on the grass, do.
I asked eagerly...rather too eagerly, perhaps, under the circumstances.
"Never mind," he said at last, "we won't say anything at present.
It was going to be a hot day.
And, quite as evidently, they were unaware of my vicinity, for before I could move or speak John repeated the words which had aroused me from my dream.
Now, to pass to another subject, had your mistress a dark green dress in her wardrobe?"
"You are sure of what you say?"
I am sorry you were not here in time to witness them.
I was compelled to shake my head.
"There was something in that case...some piece of evidence, slight in itself perhaps, but still enough of a clue to connect the murderer with the crime.
Unknown19 'To speak or not to speak,' as your so great Shakespeare says, 'that is the question.' Unknown36
I had never understood his insistence on that point.
"Very well, then, have it your own way.
There he caught me by the arm, and drew me aside.
I had counted the cups carefully, in the event of one having been removed.
"They have made one more discovery, la-bas," he observed, jerking his thumb over his shoulder in the direction of Styles.
Even John and his wife are reconciled."
He did so, on the round table by the window, but it was an ill-advised proceeding; for, the top of it being loose, it tilted up, and precipitated the despatch-case on the floor.
A window above me was cautiously opened, and Poirot himself looked out.
But, after all, she was only fifteen miles away.
But Lawrence never speaks to me if he can help it, and Mary can hardly bring herself to be civil to me.
His futile denials would not have convinced a child.
"Come, come, my friend," he said, slipping his arms through mine.
Although, unfortunately, it is a little too late now."
It was a still, warm day in early July.
"Well, you might do something.
"That's it, sir, right enough.
I at once examined the bedroom of the deceased which, by the advice of the doctors, had been kept locked, and was consequently exactly as it had been when the tragedy occurred.
A small quantity of a dark fluid remained in the saucepan, and an empty cup and saucer that had been drunk out of stood near it.
Of course, things did look black against him.
Would he, or would he not have had plenty of time to remove and destroy them?"
"But that door was bolted on the inside!"
The whole thing is absurd and ridiculous to the last degree."
"Will you relate to us exactly what happened next?"
There was therefore no means of destroying a thick document such as a will.
"Did you not put two and two together, and reflect that if it was not Alfred Inglethorp who was quarrelling with his wife...and you remember, he strenuously denied it at the inquest...it must be either Lawrence or John.
"Perhaps I have, and perhaps I haven't," he remarked dryly.
And quite spontaneously the thought flashed across my mind: "She is gaining time!"
"Do you think it is the one?"
"Yes," she said quietly, "that was not Evelyn Howard who spoke!"
"He told me to wait until I was alone with you," I said, dropping my voice significantly, and watching him intently out of the corner of my eye.
With precision of the fingers goes precision of the brain.
As for the statement relating to the destruction of the will, the prisoner had formerly practiced at the Bar, and was perfectly well aware that the will made in his favour a year before was automatically revoked by his stepmother's remarriage.
It is not the key, but it will open it at a pinch."
Too many eyes are upon her.
"But Monsieur Lawrence is not a layman.
"You realize that he chose the one place in the house to hide it where its presence would not be remarked?
"There is only one person who could possibly have destroyed that will...Mrs. Inglethorp herself!"
"Yes, but, the cup being completely smashed, there is no possibility of analyzing its contents."
Shall I tell you what made Monsieur Lawrence turn so pale when he first entered his mother's room on the fatal night?
"Then what is your explanation of Mr. Mace's statement?"
This is a very important discovery."
"It's nothing much, but...well, if you are going, will you tell him..." he dropped his voice to a whisper..."I think I've found the extra coffee-cup!"
You never saw such a spectacle!"
In the same way, we have his statement that he put the coffee down in the hall.
After lunch Poirot begged me to accompany him home.
It is 'up to them'...as you say over here."
"Answer my question, if you please."
It was an astonishing thing for a woman of her breeding to do."
I have sent him a note."
1 were the finger-prints of Monsieur Lawrence.
It was a slack time.
"Does she go there every day?"
"And, naming no names, there's one in this house that none of us could ever abide!
Dorcas was rather startled by the unexpected question.
You will walk back with me to the village?"
There is a saucepan in Mrs. Inglethorp's room with some cocoa in it.
However that may be, my father was broken-hearted.
Every eye turned simultaneously to where Alfred Inglethorp was sitting, impassive and wooden.
"I have not the least idea what my wife's views on the subject are."
Nothing at all...or just enough to make them dangerous.
"And yet she is the last person one would accuse of stooping to eavesdrop!"
Well, don't let him have too much of it.
In a few brief words, he summed up the result of the post-mortem.
"I wonder if we've time to pick up Cynthia.
But Japp was looking attentively at Poirot.
'So many pounds a year I'm worth to you.
They had already arranged their infamous plot...that he should marry this rich, but rather foolish old lady, induce her to make a will leaving her money to him, and then gain their ends by a very cleverly conceived crime.
"All greatly magnified, I see.
But see, the coffee-cup is absolutely smashed to powder."
"Which is a very good, or a very bad explanation," remarked Poirot.
Until I have found that last link in my chain, I must remain behind the scenes.
rather a curious document. A plain,
Anyone with any sense could see at once that her husband had poisoned her.
"So Dorcas knows nothing about that black beard," said Poirot thoughtfully, as we walked out into the hall again.
Now for the real ones.
"Come, my friend," he said, changing the subject, "apart from Mr. Inglethorp, how did the evidence at the inquest strike you?"
"Thank you," said Dr. Wilkins briskly.
I meant to do so, but I was told that a friend was at the hall door, so I laid down the coffee on the hall table.
"That my mother should have made a will on the very day of her death!"
You should have received the letter this morning."
"You are quite sure of that?"
is a facsimile of it.
Some violent emotion seemed to be mastering him.
"It shows clearly enough that my poor old friend had just found out she'd been made a fool of!"
"She is at the hospital again.
"No, that is a lie."
"Ah, she is an industrious little demoiselle.
The broken bell, Cynthia's absence...arranged by Inglethorp through his wife...all these are wasted.
I fancy he breathed a sigh of relief when she complied.
"Possibly, but strychnine is a fairly rapid drug in its action.
"Look after her, Mr. Hastings.
"That is arsenic...not strychnine," said Poirot mildly.
Finally he abandoned his task, shaking his head gravely.
Wells, there is one thing I should like to ask you...that is, if it is not against professional etiquette. In
That I can build card houses seven stories high, but I cannot  thump  find  thump that last link of which I spoke to you."
"Still," he added, "I'm blest if I can see what his motive could have been."
I have been turning it over in my mind, but I can't see how it has anything to do with the matter?"
I was now quite convinced that she had made a fresh will, and had called the two gardeners in to witness her signature.
We're seeing the Coroner and the doctor first."
It all arose from a misunderstanding.
At 5 o'clock she is in violent distress, and speaks of having had a great shock.
Use your warrant: Arrest Mr. Inglethorp.
The door into the passage, that is."
I said right out: 'You're an old woman, Emily, and there's no fool like an old fool.
The sight of me calmed Poirot almost immediately.
She waved me away impatiently.
"If you people only knew how fatally easy it is to poison some one by mistake, you wouldn't joke about it.
"In my opinion the whole thing is a mare's nest of Bauerstein's!
She interrupted me by slowly shaking her forefinger.
young man moistened his dry lips. His
And nobody else has anything green?"
"You cannot mix up sentiment and reason."
You would not take them.
Then, turning to his wife: "Emily dearest, I think that cushion is a little damp."
We all lived in a blast of publicity.
Had she some fantastic idea of demoniacal possession?
"No," I confessed, "I don't."
I've protected her as much as I could.
"Anyway, all this tomfoolery is a great waste of time," continued the lady, glancing up and down the jury disparagingly.
Poirot gave me one look, which conveyed a wondering pity, and his full sense of the utter absurdity of such an idea.
John rattled the handle of Mrs. Inglethorp's door violently, but with no effect.
I looked at him curiously.
Do you mean at once?"
"I had forgotten that," I said thoughtfully.
I began rather tactfully, I thought, but I had not gone far before she stopped me authoritatively.
Yet that is what it looks like."
"You do not quite take my meaning.
If I am called upon to give evidence at all"...he smiled broadly..."it will probably be as a witness for the defence." I could
I believe a speck of dust would have caused him more pain than a bullet wound.
He was a funny little man, a great dandy, but wonderfully clever."
John broke the rather awkward silence by saying with a slight effort: "I told you, didn't I, that Mr. Inglethorp has returned?"
Now Mrs. Cavendish is a very resolute woman, and, behind her mask of reserve, she was madly jealous of her husband.
"I assure you that you need not let it trouble you.
Poirot had been asked by John to remain to lunch, and was already seated at the table.
Of course it did not take effect until the early morning, since the cocoa was only drunk in the middle of the night."
"You do not know if it was sent after Mr. Lawrence Cavendish to Wales, or whether it was put in his room?"
He had qualified as a doctor but early relinquished the profession of medicine, and lived at home while pursuing literary ambitions; though his verses never had any marked success.
Inglethorp replied with perfect calmness: "No, I did not.
I guarded her from the lot of them, and then a glib-tongued scoundrel comes along, and pooh!
They've been in every room in the house...turning things inside out, and upside down.
Blood tells...always remember that...blood tells."
Cynthia and I went and sat by the open window in the drawing-room.
"Dr. Bauerstein had it tested, and you yourself laughed at the possibility of there being strychnine in it."
The servants' rooms are reached through the door B.
He tried the roll top tentatively.
Mrs. Cavendish gave me some tea, and her few quiet remarks heightened my first impression of her as a thoroughly fascinating woman.
I must confess that I was quite unable to see his attraction.
"Why, if it isn't Mr.
Now that she had been proved justified in so tragic a manner, I felt ashamed.
I am asking you to do me the honour of becoming my wife."
Anyway, she was familiar with the fact that the addition of a bromide to a mixture containing strychnine would cause the precipitation of the latter.
I had to confess myself mistaken.
Your mistress had a quarrel?"
We watched him, fascinated, though I think we all knew in our hearts that it was too late, and that nothing could be done now.
I must not appear in the case."
"What you say about Lawrence is a great surprise to me," I said.
I asked Poirot whether he thought John would be condemned.
This affair must all be unravelled from within."
I merely realized that it was possible, from your story, for Monsieur Lawrence to go to the poison cupboard.
His good-natured face wore an unaccustomed frown of anger.
"I am a very bad friend."
what about the 'extra coffee-cup'?" "I
He, by the way, had been acquitted of the charge brought against him.
"Mr. Hastings, you do not think...surely think...surely it could not have been Lawrence...Oh, no, that could not be!"
"You remember"...he addressed us collectively again..."that again..."that through all the tumult and noise next door Mademoiselle Cynthia slept. That admitted of
"It would have been much easier for them to bring the crime home to Lawrence."
Dr. Bauerstein is much of my height and build, and, like me, wears a beard.
By the way, your mistress didn't ask you to sign any paper yesterday?"
The fact is, we've treated him abominably.
He may be seen leaving the room...he may be searched.
I suppose you think it nonsense?"
so childishly vexed and crest-fallen that I hastened to console him. "Never mind,
John was in the smoking-room.
Presently Mrs. Inglethorp turned to give some instructions about letters to Evelyn Howard, and her husband addressed me in his painstaking voice: "Is soldiering your regular profession, Mr.
You need not think that any fear of publicity, or scandal between husband and wife will deter me.'
I don't know what possessed me.
He looked at me keenly as he spoke, and I was aware that I reddened under his prolonged gaze.
Something evidently of a non-committal nature.
His face was impassive as ever, and the strange unreality of the man struck me afresh.
"That was what you sealed up in the envelope."
And he shot a baleful glance at Evelyn Howard.
Therefore, he took the risk, the great risk, of coming in here.
I was vexed to think that my diplomacy had been in vain.
Would you mind moving...thank you, Mr.
Presumably, therefore, he has some wits.
And now, in this house, a murder had been committed.
Now that security was removed...and the air seemed rife with suspicion.
Sir Ernest fairly shot the next question at him.
A strangled cry from the bed startled me.
A fresh access of pain seized the unfortunate old lady.
"I am to take it then that you decline to say where you were at the time that Mr. Mace positively recognized you as entering the shop to purchase strychnine?"
I shall go for that fellow Japp, when I next see him!"
This morning, no doubt, she would have consulted me on the subject...but subject...but she had no chance.
"I say, what was the end of that message?
"Oh, we know Monsieur Poirot," said Cynthia gaily.
My attention was attracted by the story of Annie about some 'salt' on the tray of cocoa which she took every night to Mrs. Inglethorp's room.
"Were you in company with anyone?"
After pausing a few minutes respectfully, so as not to spoil his effect, I gave him Lawrence's message.
"On the contrary," said Poirot quietly, "there are several points in his favour."
That always seems the difficulty to me."
"Yes...that is to say, I believe I know how it was committed."
Let them take the testimony they had heard and sift it impartially.
In exactly the same way, Mrs. Inglethorp had laid down her cup of coffee on reaching her room the night before, and the treacherous table had played her the same trick.
But they are both unusually proud, and their pride held them inexorably apart.
A little cry broke from her lips: "You don't know, you don't know, how this hateful place has been prison to me!"
I heard Poirot chuckle softly beside me.
"Me and Moosier here have met before...and there's no man's judgment I'd sooner take than his.
"And she is terrified of 'Sisters'."
You see, my friend, you have a nature so honest, and a countenance so transparent, that...enfin, to conceal your feelings is impossible!
"The good times will come again, Dorcas.
"I'm afraid I couldn't, sir.
It seemed to be the middle of the night when I was awakened by Lawrence Cavendish.
"It says nothing of the kind in the letter," the Coroner pointed out.
"Well," said Cynthia graciously, "we are very busy, but if we have time it shall be done."
But there was no sign of him, and I hesitated to go right up to the farm itself.
"But he declared that he saw it bolted!"
This changed the face of the whole affair, for there was now one cup missing.
the jury wanted to know if the same objection applied to coffee. "No. Coffee
"I'd no idea you knew him."
No suspicion had entered the prisoner's head that anyone could possibly have mistaken his voice for that of Mr. Inglethorp.
"Ah," I said, "now I understand..." "Understand what?"
"No, John," I said, "it isn't one of us.
"I was foolish, no doubt," murmured Inglethorp.
A great chest, full of old clothes and fancy dresses, and what not.
In a moment or two he roused himself, and went on with his investigations.
"Come inside, Manning," said John, "I want to speak to you."
Do you remember the day of John Cavendish's arrest, when you found me deliberating over a big decision?"
This confirmed my belief that Mrs. Cavendish was not speaking the truth when she declared that she had been dressing in her room at the time of the tragedy.
As the weeks went by, the state of Poirot's nerves grew worse and worse.
The framework of the door was solid, and for a long time it resisted our efforts, but at last we felt it give beneath our weight, and finally, with a resounding crash, it was burst open.
"No, I do not think so.
It was written on one of those printed will forms, and witnessed by two of the servants...not Dorcas."
My paradise was rudely shattered by the sound of a well known, and heartily disliked, voice in the hall.
I drew close to him, while John and the lawyer were debating the question of going through Mrs. Inglethorp's papers.
Then he raised his hat with a flourish to Cynthia, and we drove away.
"We are at one then," said Poirot, "for I, too, want to hang the criminal."
I had arrived at Styles on the 5th of July.
I believe they have to be very careful.
He appeared to be in an absolute frenzy.
I will reconstruct for you as far as possible.
I thought of Mrs. Raikes's gipsy face, and Evelyn Howard's warnings, but wisely decided to hold my peace, whilst Cynthia exhausted every possible hypothesis, and cheerfully hoped, "Aunt Emily will send him away, and will never speak to him again."
remained quite impassive. "Only the
The Scotland Yard men were the cynosure of all eyes.
It was rather inexplicable, but I supposed that, for some reason or other, Japp wished to keep it out of the papers.
"And how do you know that these fine begonias are not of equal importance?"
As we came out of the Stylites Arms, Poirot drew me aside by a gentle pressure of the arm.
Nevertheless, although he had been too clever for them this time, and the charge of espionage could not be brought home to him, his wings were pretty well clipped for the future.
She greeted me with a few words of pleasant welcome in a low clear voice, and I sank into a basket chair feeling distinctly glad that I had accepted John's invitation.
Poirot looked at me curiously.
I had expected Poirot to be disappointed; but, to my surprise, he replied that that was as he had thought, and that he was very glad.
Nor did they recognize it for what it was...a piece torn from a green land armlet."
Poirot did not appear to be listening to me.
"Now there was only one person at Styles who worked on the land...Mrs. Cavendish.
"She was a very good mistress to me, sir."
Also, at the inquest, Mrs. Cavendish declared that she had heard, from her own room, the fall of the table by the bed.
"Come on then, you've done enough gardening for today.
I suppose you can give me no idea to whom these letters were addressed?"
Evie's had a row with Alfred Inglethorp, and she's off."
a bitter taste of its own which would probably cover the taste of strychnine."
but it was clever...his idea!
is suggestive"...his eye sweeping the whole length of the wall..."but it was not his candle that made this great patch, for you perceive that this is white grease; whereas Monsieur Lawrence's candle, which is still on the dressing-table, is pink. On the other hand,
She had accordingly gone downstairs again to rectify her error.
"I always had hopes of that letter.
Decidedly, it was the policy of an imbecile."
"Oh, yes, I had a little idea sometime ago...and it has turned out to be correct."
Now I'm out of the way, they'll impose upon her."
Taking the keys from Poirot, John unlocked it, and we all passed in.
2 are a lady's; they are much smaller, and quite different in every way.
And of course they would find no strychnine!
I believe you're right about that man, Poirot.
Poirot went straight to him.
I think I'll be getting back.
"I daren't do it, Mr. Poirot.
"Have you never suspected it?"
There is nothing that can compromise him in any way, since it is Miss Howard who has the strychnine, which, after all, is only wanted as a blind to throw suspicion on John Cavendish.But now a hitch occurs.
I'll go and see if it's there now."
Finally Miss Howard consented to return to her chair.
Then I dismissed him from my mind, and returned to the contemplation of my own affairs.
He certainly struck a rather alien note.
It was a medium sized sheet of paper, rather dusty, as though it had lain by for some time.
Then, amidst a breathless silence, Alfred Inglethorp was called.
I looked thoughtfully down the corridor in front of me.
I expressed my admiration to Poirot, and he nodded thoughtfully.
I looked at the extraordinary little man, divided between annoyance and amusement.
"Miss Howard, do you remember a conversation that took place on the day of my friend's arrival here?
What possessed him to go posting off to London in this unaccountable way?
We must find out who did take that coffee to Mrs. Inglethorp eventually, or who passed through the hall whilst it was standing there.
Not that it matters now...now that we've come to the parting of the ways."
The chest was nearly empty, and there, reposing right at the bottom, was a magnificent black beard.
These exclamations burst from us disjointedly.
"Thank you, Miss Murdoch, that is all."
He had the big paper knife in his hand, and 'Mind, Dorcas,' he says, 'you'll have to be very respectful.
I said, "that as usual, you are not going to explain?"
She arrives from Middlingham with all the compromising items in her possession.
You do not know......" he broke off abruptly.
Tears came into his eyes.
"Well," I said consolingly, "it will be the other way about tomorrow."
I don't think I can have noticed it."
I asked, sitting up in bed, and trying to collect my scattered thoughts.
I asked benignantly, as she hesitated.
At most, I permitted you to deceive yourself."
Mrs. Cavendish must think I am working for her husband, not against him."
You should always pay attention to your instincts."
Mrs. Inglethorp left her money to her elder stepson, knowing that he would have to keep up Styles.
She stared at him for a few minutes, as though seeking to read some deeper meaning into his words.
"My father was English," said Mrs. Cavendish, "but my mother was a Russian."
Just ask your Alfred how much time he spends over there.'
She usually did lock it at night.
"But surely Miss Howard had ample opportunities of aiding him."
And then she says to me: 'Never trust a man, Dorcas, they're not worth it!'
"Oh, ay, he's been here, right enough.
Was this what they had meant?
I will put down my little case until I need it."
I could not quite tell what to say, so I held my peace, and he began slowly building up the cards again, speaking in jerks as he did so.
The company once assembled, Poirot rose from his seat with the air of a popular lecturer, and bowed politely to his audience.
The man came and put it right on Tuesday morning."
Great authority on toxicology, I believe."
I instinctively followed the direction of his eyes, but I could see nothing unusual.
The Belgian who is here?
The wretched young man wilted visibly under the Coroner's frown.
"Have you ever known a chemist to send out a box like that, without his printed name?"
Once again I could not help regretting that my friend was so prone to lose his head in moments of excitement.
"I believe I've only seen your hand shake once."
She herself, I noticed, was dressed in her white land smock.
I remembered Mary as she lay white and exhausted on the sofa, listening, listening.
"Exactly," said Poirot, in an odd voice.
There was a column of mere padding about "The Styles Poisoning Case," but nothing further.
He's admittedly one of the world's greatest toxicologists......" "One of the world's greatest what?
Mary Cavendish brought our coffee to us.
"And you will return there after it is over?"
turned to Mary with a gesture of despair. "He'll
Yes, decidedly, the little man was clever.
"A good conscience makes a sound sleeper," he observed.
"This is a fragment of a will!"
I will tell you why.
I could see by the expression of his face that he fully appreciated the difficulty of the position.
Mrs. Inglethorp greeted me with effusion.
He never hesitated or faltered.
John looked questioningly at Poirot.
I understand now......" "What I meant when I told you that you could safely confess to Papa Poirot, eh?
I told him, what was true, that I liked him very much, that I hoped to come to like him more, but that I was not in any way what the world calls 'in love' with him.
"I put it to you that, wearing a suit of Mr. Inglethorp's clothes, with a black beard trimmed to resemble his, you were there...and signed the register in his name!"
Here are the three cups.
On the contrary, Mrs. Inglethorp had taken the last dose on the day of her death.
You will remember that, in consequence of the War economics practiced at Styles, no waste paper was thrown away.
"Alas, madame," said Poirot, "I thought you had come to honour me with a visit!"
"That would have been the table by the bed?"
"What do you mean...helping us?"
"So," I cried, a light breaking in upon me, "it was John who quarrelled with his mother that afternoon?"
A rather wistful smile passed across the face of the prisoner in the dock.
"Oh, no, monsieur, he has but taken the train to Tadminster.
"No, I can't say that I have."
"I must see our agent over those estate accounts."
Having deduced its existence, I set Miss Howard to search for it, and, as you see, she has been successful."
"But now a fresh dilemma arises: he dare not keep that piece of paper on him.
Cynthia hesitated a moment, plucking up the grass with her tiny hands.
"Then I'll go to bed directly after supper."
In the deathly silence, Poirot pieced together the slips of paper and, clearing his throat, read: 'Dearest Evelyn: 'You will be anxious at hearing nothing.
"Mr. Inglethorp," said the Coroner, "you have heard your wife's dying words repeated here.
"There, mon ami, you will be of great assistance to me."
"And when did you take it into Mrs. Inglethorp's room?"
So poisons 'naturally interest' you, do they?
It was very nice to be kissed by Cynthia, but the publicity of the salute rather impaired the pleasure.
That's why I have gone into all the details of this thing whether they seemed to me relevant or not."
Sometimes, I feel sure he is as mad as a hatter; and then, just as he is at his maddest, I find there is method in his madness."
He paused a moment, and Cynthia interrupted: "But I should have woken up if anyone had come through my room?"
Now, at 4 o'clock, Dorcas overheard her mistress saying angrily: 'You need not think that any fear of publicity, or scandal between husband and wife will deter me.'
I was very comfortable where I was.
He asked Dorcas some question about a bell, and appeared so delighted with her answer that he is capering about as you see!"
"No," I said, rather surprised, "I know that there are no two finger-marks alike, but that's as far as my science goes."
I had to go and live with some old aunts in Yorkshire."
"No, I've stuck here like a rock.
There was really no arguing with him if he chose to take that line.
'Take it easy,' I said to her, 'Take...it...easy'.
I'll write to Lady Tadminster for the second day, myself.
Poirot studied me attentively for a moment or two.
"Does this imbecile of a man want to be arrested?"
"But I am most serious.
Then she came across to the window where you sat with Mademoiselle Cynthia.
"Ah, but he had no opportunity.
"She has all Wednesdays off, and comes back to lunch on Saturdays.
She is an excellent specimen of well-balanced English beef and brawn.
"Perhaps, mon ami, I did not do so, just because he was your old friend."
And as Inglethorp did not appear to understand, he added: "Mr. Inglethorp, you are standing in very grave danger."
He repeated it to me, and there is a sentence of yours that has impressed me very much.
There were one or two green fabrics of varying shades; but Poirot shook his head over them all.
My pent-up excitement burst forth.
I am glad it has all ended so happily.
"They were, of course, an accusation against her husband."
I don't know if it was a letter, or just a piece of paper, but it had writing on it, and she kept staring at it, almost as if she couldn't believe what was written there.
cried Poirot, with a gesture of anger.
Lawrence at that moment passed the door.
The throb of the motor came through the open window, and Miss Howard rose and moved to the door.
You understand that, if I had thought I would do my husband any good by revealing these facts, I would have done so.
"Oh, yes, I heard the voices, but I did not hear what they said."
The answer brought a momentary stiffness in its train.
too amiable, madame. What I
"I know, but, still, who else is there?"
It's ever so much nicer."
And I had an idea she might know something about the destroying of the will.
She hurries out into the passage, for the servants must not find her where she is.
This has been a most rotten business.
But here the whole thing is cut and dried.
He is, on the contrary, a patriot.
With a satisfied and expressive countenance, Sir Ernest observed: "I have nothing more to ask you, Mr.
"I did not know it.
"Ah, that is not what I want.
Leave the first one for the moment, what was the second?"
She turned towards me, and gasped out: 'Alfred...Alfred......'" "Could the strychnine have been administered in Mrs. Inglethorp's after-dinner coffee which was taken to her by her husband?"
"I think...I am sure...he cared for me at first.
they are identical." Poirot nodded,
happiness, mon ami," he said gravely. I did
That wasn't how it was done.
"Oh, clever as the devil!
"He is clever," observed Poirot meditatively.
And, if that were so, was it not also possible that she might have taken her own life?
There is the strychnine sold across the counter at Styles St. Mary by Mace.
Mrs. Inglethorp reads it, and becomes aware of the perfidy of her husband and Evelyn Howard, though, unfortunately, the sentence about the bromides conveys no warning to her mind.
But we must be very circumspect.
I do not usually label myself as dense, but I must confess that nothing out of the ordinary had attracted my attention.
He was outwardly calm, but I noticed his hands, which from long force of habit were mechanically straightening the spill vases on the mantel-piece, were shaking violently.
Lawrence, on the other hand, being less conventional, and having more imagination, I felt I might count upon as an ally.
"Yes," said Poirot thoughtfully, "it was only natural."
It's simply bare-faced fortune hunting; but there you are...she is her own mistress, and she's married him."
"Poirot, you're pulling my leg!"
It's up in the front attic, sir.
She had, however, little to tell.
But you've been on the spot from the first, and you may have picked up some little hints.
As the motor drove away, Mrs. Cavendish suddenly detached herself from the group, and moved across the drive to the lawn to meet a tall bearded man who had been evidently making for the house.
"May I ask how things are proceeding?"
She had known Alfred Inglethorp only too well.
"Does anything in your examination lead you to determine how the poison was administered?"
John interrupted just as I had done.
"A letter in the murderer's own hand-writing, mes amis!
Poirot laid down the case again.
It'll be mine some day...should be mine now by rights, if my father had only made a decent will.
It was the expression on his face that was extraordinary...a curious mingling of terror and agitation.
"What is your remarkable little friend doing?"
"I take it, Dr. Bauerstein, that strychnine, as a drug, acts quickly?"
"Well, it is this: that Mrs. Cavendish does not care, and never has cared one little jot about Dr.
Probably, I thought, it really never happened.
"Poirot," I cried, "where are you?"
No, surely she could not care for Bauerstein.
No one took much notice of that at the inquest...but now it has a very different significance.
"Mr. Hastings," she said, "do you think I and my husband are happy together?"
Sure enough, there was the chest, a fine old piece, all studded with brass nails, and full to overflowing with every imaginable type of garment.
Yet he had a certain charm of manner, and I fancied that, if one really knew him well, one could have a deep affection for him.
I had no quarrel with my dear wife.
It was an ordinary key of the Yale type, with a bit of twisted wire through the handle.
"You read my wife's last words as an accusation"...Inglethorp was continuing..."they were, on the contrary, an appeal to me." The Coroner
It was pitch dark, but Lawrence was following with the candle, and by its feeble light we saw that the bed had not been slept in, and that there was no sign of the room having been occupied.
Alfred Inglethorp was called, and denied having purchased the poison.
"My dear Poirot," I expostulated, "I never thought it would interest you.
You remember her once mentioning that her father was a doctor?
"But they do, Cynthia dear," I said earnestly.
do not ask me to believe that any man could be so idiotic!
Shall I enumerate them, or will you?"
All the evidence against him arose out of pure accident.
Poirot seized his hat, gave a ferocious twist to his moustache, and, carefully brushing an imaginary speck of dust from his sleeve, motioned me to precede him down the stairs; there we joined the detectives and set out for Styles.
"But I did," interrupted Lawrence suddenly.
Mary shivered a little, and buttoned her black sports coat closer.
The gardeners' evidence, as to the witnessing of the will was taken, and then Dorcas was called.
But your instinct tells you he did not commit it.
"Of course I may be quite wrong, but it still seems to me that my mother's death might be accounted for by natural means."
Now all is arranged and classified.
My pride forbade me to ask any questions.
"Ah, that's better," said Heavywether, with ferocious geniality.
"That corresponds with what Dorcas heard.
"I do not think so.
He had never spoken to him.
And in a minute or two, Poirot continued: "Let us look at the matter like this.
Can you tell me the views of the other members of the family?"
It was one o'clock before we'd finished.
I turned to the pony-trap.
"Have you got the book here?"
"You and Miss Howard seem to know what you are talking about," I observed coldly.
It was a guess that turned out to be correct.
"Yes, a good deal that was peculiar came out today," continued Poirot.
"Not the fact that there is no chemist's name?"
You think that we are lukewarm...that we lack fire and energy...but trust me, it is not so."
They all declared unanimously that it was certainly not his hand-writing, and gave it as their view that it might be that of the prisoner disguised.
From the evidence at the inquest, Mr. Inglethorp murdered his wife as sure as I stand here, and if anyone but you hinted the contrary I'd laugh in his face.
"When did she lose the key of it?"
She was staring at him, fascinated, and made a slight affirmative movement of the hand.
A wave of revulsion swept over me.
So the question of the tonic was finally abandoned, and the Coroner proceeded with his task.
He laughed rather ruefully, as he described how he had discovered a very rare species of fern in an inaccessible place, and in his efforts to obtain it had lost his footing, and slipped ignominiously into a neighbouring pond.
Five minutes' delay, however, I allowed myself.
"It covers everything, and explains nothing.
"But what does it mean?"
Possibly she applied oil to the hinges, for I found that it opened quite noiselessly when I tried it.
They don't want to part with you, I'm sure."
I suppose they took advantage of our all being out.
There was a red wig, I know, but nothing else in the way of hair.
"I should not think it likely."
I have always been rather good at what is called, I believe, creating an atmosphere.
have carried it away with me. Ah, triple
I had hoped that he would have observed the stiffness of my manner.
"Oh, I see what you mean.
Miss Howard, in particular, took no pains to conceal her feelings.
Instantly I regretted my words.
It is by the charity of that good Mrs. Inglethorp that I am here."
her last will, dated August of last year, after various unimportant legacies to servants, etc., she gave her entire fortune to her stepson, Mr. John Cavendish."
Though, if it is as we suspect, it seems a clear enough case.
Nothing but the great danger through which they have passed could have brought these two proud souls together again."
Figure to yourself the scene!
"That is all my business."
This solution deposits in a few hours the greater part of the strychnine salt as an insoluble bromide in transparent crystals.
"If we are wrong, well and good," said Poirot.
"You do not see that that letter was not written on the 17th, but on the 7th...the 7th...the day after Miss Howard's departure?
It's a jolly good life taking it all round...if it weren't for that fellow Alfred Inglethorp!"
Suddenly she took her face from her hands.
Poirot puffed at his tiny cigarette, his eyes fixed on the ceiling.
The possibility had to be confirmed, or eliminated."
"His manner was unfortunate," I observed thoughtfully.
I asked in a low voice, with some curiosity.
"Then you must know where you found it?"
But it can't be so...it's too monstrous, too impossible.
'I have a message for you, from Poirot.
She put off her project until the early hours of the morning as being safer, since the servants were accustomed to hearing her move about her room at that time.
"You know, Monsieur Poirot, that you have carte blanche in every way."
"What did I say about her evidence at the inquest?"
Had it been a little clearer in its terms, it is possible that Mrs. Inglethorp, warned in time, would have escaped.. As it was, she realized her danger, but not the manner of it."
In the event of anything happening to your brother, who will inherit Styles Court?"
She shrank against the wall, the pupils of her eyes dilating wildly.
But, according to you, she ate very little for supper, and yet the symptoms do not develop until early the next morning!
She was not extravagantly loved...no.
I will pour it out."
What on earth is the good of that, now that we know about the cocoa?"
"Dash it all, Evie, I can't haul him down to the local police station by the scruff of his neck."
Presently, when we are calmer, we will arrange the facts, neatly, each in his proper place.
"Weeds grow like house afire.
The doctors ridiculed it of course.
Not, of course, that I care whether Lawrence hates me or not.
"Do you mean they've arrested him?"
Then I used to bring it up, and put it on the table by the swing door, and take it into her room later."
One could save time by taking a narrow path through the long grass, which cut off the detours of the winding drive.
"Not after that fragment of conversation you overheard between Mrs. Cavendish and her mother-in-law, and her subsequent lack of frankness at the inquest?"
We had a late luncheon and spent the afternoon resting in the garden.
Mary Cavendish laid her hand upon my arm.
The trial of John Cavendish for the murder of his stepmother took place two months later.
"I admit I do not wish it.
After all, it is very responsible work.
I strolled to the window, and saw at once that the begonia beds had been newly planted.
But about three o'clock a ferocious and prolonged hooting outside drove us to the window, to see Poirot alighting from a car, accompanied by Japp and Summerhaye.
We know now that there is one person who did not buy the poison.
"Two is enough for a secret."
Did she have that every night?"
"Yes, yes, that's the point.
"I should consider it very unlikely.
"Nothing at all, of course," replied Poirot, smiling.
But along comes Mr. Alfred Inglethorp...and within two months...hey presto!"
That leaves us two possibilities: either he knew what was going to happen or he had a reason of his own for his absence."
Motioning to me to follow him, he ran swiftly down the stairs and opened the door.
She dressed completely in her land kit, and made her way quietly through Mademoiselle Cynthia's room into that of Mrs.
Then, slowly and deliberately, he shook his head.
Poirot had opened the door, and meeting her agonized eyes had nodded gently.
He and his wife had lived at Styles Court in every luxury, surrounded by her care and attention.
I didn't see it either until now.
"What have you been doing, doctor?"
It was as though he had seen something that turned him to stone.
Poirot made me recapitulate the scene of the night before, listening very carefully, and verifying the position of the various cups.
I had been turning over an idea in my head, and I felt that the moment had now come to broach it.
Japp's face grew grave, though Summerhaye gave an incredulous snort.
screwed up his cherub-like face, and puffed comically enough..."blow them away!"
Well, that is what Mrs. Inglethorp did.
That one of them fitted I know.
It was because, whilst his mother lay there, obviously poisoned, he saw, over your shoulder, that the door into Mademoiselle Cynthia's room was unbolted."
But I can tell you this much...it was not in Miss Howard's favour."
Do you remember telling me that my hand shook as I was straightening the ornaments on the mantel-piece?"
I half thought he was going to rise from his chair, but he remained seated, although a remarkably well acted expression of astonishment rose on his face.
There was really more evidence against her than anyone else."
It was vital to him that it should be destroyed before it was discovered and its significance appreciated.
There was strychnine in Mrs. Inglethorp's tonic.
Peril to the detective who says: 'It is so small...it does not matter.
"Wilkins knocked Denby up to tell him.
"And, anyway, I don't see......" "You do not see?
"Suppose," suggested Poirot, "that, unknown to you, she had made a new will in favour of some one who was not, in any sense of the word, a member of the family...we will say Miss Howard, for instance...would you be surprised?"
The whole thing is absurd."
That, too, was locked or bolted on the inside.
What do you make of the fact that all the doors of the bedroom were bolted on the inside?"
"And, on behalf of the Yard, I'm much obliged to you, though I'm bound to confess I can't at present see the faintest possible loop-hole in the evidence, but you always were a marvel!
"And you'd inherit a good slice of money too, wouldn't you?"
After tea, I invited Cynthia to come for a walk, and we sauntered off into the woods together.
And I..." his anger burst forth freely..."miserable freely..."miserable animal that I am! I guessed
Yes, it all fitted in.
No, he waits until he has had a violent quarrel with her, of which the whole household is cognisant, and which naturally directs their suspicions upon him.
"My good Dorcas, I have an idea...a little idea...if it should prove justified, what magnificent chance!
The house was constantly besieged by reporters, who were consistently denied admission, but who continued to haunt the village and the grounds, where they lay in wait with cameras, for any unwary members of the household.
"Then you will not object to answering a few questions.
"A great pity," agreed Poirot gravely.
We acquiesced and followed him out of the room.
"Now, sir," said Japp, turning briskly to John, "I should like to see the lady's bedroom, please, and after that I'll have a little chat with the servants.
On the afternoon of July 17th, continued Counsel, immediately after the quarrel with her son, Mrs. Inglethorp made a new will.
With a stride, the doctor reached the bed, and seizing her arms worked them energetically, applying what I knew to be artificial respiration.
She smiled, and so did I.
As one looked out over the flat Essex country, lying so green and peaceful under the afternoon sun, it seemed almost impossible to believe that, not so very far away, a great war was running its appointed course.
No doubt I am very dense, but I cannot see what the proximity of the coast has got to do with the murder of Mrs.
A big bump...eh, mon ami?"
"Then I will begin by asking you about the events of yesterday afternoon.
There had come the sound of the bell below.
To my surprise, he did not examine them, merely remarking approvingly as he relocked the desk: "Decidedly, he is a man of method, this Mr.
"You know that fellow Inglethorp is back?"
Mrs. Cavendish's clear voice startled me.
Suddenly the poor child burst out crying.
Ah, my friend, I am like a giant refreshed.
What becomes of your theories, then?"
"Poirot, I cannot believe you are serious."
I retraced my steps to Styles in some annoyance.
"Now, to my way of thinking, there is one insuperable objection to Miss Howard's being the murderess."
"You can imagine that, from my aunts' point of view, it was a very good match for me.
And he tapped himself proudly on the breast.
It was, in fact, a wicked and malicious attempt on the part of some third person to fix the crime on the prisoner.
Well, it was just then that Bauerstein arrived.
In spite of myself, an agreeable warmth spread over me.
"In a sense, that is correct, madame.
"And then, how could he know it was her coffee?
Poirot had conferred with Japp in a low tone on the way up, and it was the latter functionary who requested that the household, with the exception of the servants, should be assembled together in the drawing-room.
Poirot, I noticed, was looking profoundly discouraged.
the Coroner leant back satisfied.
You will learn later that the person who usually poured out Mrs. Inglethorp's medicine was always extremely careful not to shake the bottle, but to leave the sediment at the bottom of it undisturbed.
As she left the room, Poirot came over from the window where he had been standing, and sat down facing Miss Howard.
We are working together towards a common end."
On my honour, I will hang him as high as Haman!"
"Because Mademoiselle Cynthia does not take sugar in her coffee."
"Yes, yes," I said impatiently.
As I saw a faint smile gather on Mrs. Cavendish's expressive mouth, I endeavoured to try and turn the conversation by saying: "They haven't met yet, have they?"
"Did you, while you happened to be alone for a few seconds, unlock the poison cupboard, and examine some of the bottles?"
In spite of myself, my heart gave a leap of relief.
I accepted his assurance, though I did not really see how he could be so positive about the matter.
"Such a charming invitation from Mrs. Rolleston.
You told me yourself that he had started by studying medicine, and that he had taken his degree."
"There is a later will."
He has no technical knowledge, and is by nature unimaginative.
I wish you could have seen it then, sir.
Everything must be taken into account.
No, I don't think so.
"Well, I don't know, sir, I expect she would lock it up in that purple case of hers."
"Surely the whole thing is clear as daylight.
We had reached Leastways Cottage, and Poirot ushered me upstairs to his own room.
One or two of those powders introduced into the full bottle of medicine would effectually precipitate the strychnine, as the book describes, and cause it to be taken in the last dose.
"What do you want me to do?"
He held his cap in his hands, twisting it very carefully round and round.
Cynthia fidgeted with a little tassel for some moments, then, suddenly exclaiming: "You dears!"
This is my old friend, Monsieur Poirot, whom I have not seen for years."
That little Wilkins is about the greatest fool that even I have ever seen.
The murder, he said, was a most premeditated and cold-blooded one.
I was hardly as clear as I could wish.
"There's another thing," said John suddenly, and the unexpected sound of his voice made me start guiltily.
To divert suspicion from himself, is it not so?
He also took long walks into the country.
Surely the war had affected the little man's brain.
She admits to Dorcas, 'I don't know what to do; scandal between husband and wife is a dreadful thing.'
I realized the significance of this.
John Cavendish did not destroy that will."
He looked at Mary Cavendish.
"You and John are not going to live here?"
Only I heard him, and glancing up curiously at the little man I saw that his face was working with suppressed excitement, and his eyes were as green as a cat's.
A narcotic taken with strychnine will delay the action of the poison for some hours."
"H'm, yes, that might be," said John.
Was he pleased, or disappointed?
"Do you also deny this?"
The doors were bolted...our own eyes have told us that...yet the presence of the candle grease on the floor, and the destruction of the will, prove that during the night some one entered the room.
"But what were Lawrence Cavendish's finger-marks doing on it?
"Well, mon ami, a good deal you can guess for yourself.
My mother was only buried on Saturday, and here you are gadding about with the fellow."
"My dear Evie, don't shout so.
"That may have been done some time ago," I interrupted.
She flings out her arm, overturning the bed table, and then pulls desperately at the bell.
"There have been a great number of undiscovered crimes," I argued.
Four, a fragment of some dark green fabric...only a thread or two, but recognizable."
"This should have been sent up this morning."
herself quietly from his arm, and spoke over her shoulder. "Perhaps," she
"Hastings has explained to you that we are anxious for no publicity?"
"Quick, go to the other wing.
The analyst was asked by him to report whether strychnine was, or was not, present.
It was the most awful hour of my life.
Now we have more strychnine, handled by one of the household.
For the love of Heaven, direct me to a garage, madame!'
There was certainly nothing of the policeman about them.
I spent it in ransacking the library until I discovered a medical book which gave a description of strychnine poisoning.
I do wish I knew what it was all about."
It must have been quite twenty minutes before Poirot rejoined me.
"No, sir, you see there's not much room on the gas stove, so Cook used to make it early, before putting the vegetables on for supper.
"I poured it out, yes.
"Oh, yes, sir, whose else's could it be?"
I shall never forget the night he came down as the Char of Persia, I think he called it...a sort of Eastern King it was.
We strained and heaved together.
Isn't it possible that, as Inglethorp brought him through the hall, the doctor dropped something into the coffee in passing?"
But they were both gay enough this afternoon, and chatted together like a couple of children.
"He'd better ask Dorcas, or one of the maids, if he wants to know about coffee-cups.
You are kind, I think...yes, I am sure you are kind."
"We have found in this room," he said, writing busily, "six points of interest.
These witnesses of yours are all right, I suppose?"
Monsieur Poirot, I am sure you agree with me that the facts are very suggestive."
He paused a minute, then went on.
He was therefore forced to depart from the house, leaving it in the spill vase."
We were detained under suspicion by the hospital porter, until Cynthia appeared to vouch for us, looking very cool and sweet in her long white overall.
"I say, that's playing it a bit low down," I protested.
"She is the very person.
You have a good memory, and you have given me the facts faithfully.
"No, I never take it in coffee."
One more question, Mr. Wells.
You notice it had been trimmed?"
A few minutes later Alfred Inglethorp entered the room.
"You don't know anything about me, do you?"
I handed the fragment over to the police who did not consider it of much importance.
was fairly certain that it was Mrs. Cavendish who had hidden it, but I had to make sure. Monsieur
"Some one with a good deal of intelligence," remarked Poirot dryly.
I shall never forget my first sight of Mary Cavendish.
Would the prisoner, in the hottest week of a hot summer, be likely to go to a drawer containing winter underclothing.
"Then you cannot have failed to hear the voices inside, especially as they were raised in anger.
"Then that is cleared up!
Ah, these are dreadful times!"
But come in...Dorcas is here."
"You've seen nothing at all?"
The witness was not cross-examined.
There was a moment when you could not have been all together, or it would not have been necessary to call to Monsieur Lawrence to come and join you on the balcony."
"Amen to that," said Dorcas fiercely.
It is partly your fault that I ever came to suspect her.
I saw the official caution "Anything you say will be used in evidence against you," actually hovering on Summerhaye's lips.
After tea, Mrs. Inglethorp went to lie down to rest before her efforts in the evening and I challenged Mary Cavendish to a single at tennis.
"Gone down to interview the servants.
Is that so, mon ami?"
Is not that very surprising?"
"No...but..." "Ah, you did not notice the postmark!
I did not, of course, know at the time that the will in question had only been made this afternoon, and I will admit that, when I learnt that fact, I fell into a grievous error.
Poisons are his hobby, so of course he sees them everywhere."
What a rotten world it is, though!"
What was all this about a lost key?
It was up to Poirot to make his boast good.
But we must be more intelligent.
He was so quaintly humorous that I was forced to laugh; and we went together to the drawing-room, where the coffee-cups and tray remained undisturbed as we had left them.
Was it possible that Mrs. Inglethorp's mind was deranged?
Mrs. Inglethorp had a box of bromide powders, which she occasionally took at night.
"No, sir, I should leave it on the hall table.
face was working curiously. "It's
"Don't ask me to help you, because I won't.
"No," he said gravely, "I expected it."
Never know where they won't turn up next.
"I will put my question in another form.
This attitude of his gave me furiously to think, and I was slowly forced to the conclusion that Alfred Inglethorp wanted to be arrested.
Now we are faced with a new problem.
Mr. Philips, K. C., opened the case for the Crown.
"Yes, sir, first me and then Willum."
"Yes, sir, made with milk, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and two teaspoonfuls of rum in it."
She was an old lady, and might possibly have forgotten the former one; or...this seemed to him more likely...she may have had an idea that it was revoked by her marriage, as there had been some conversation on the subject.
That idea of yours about the bromides was a stroke of genius!
Surely you don't want the whole house to know of this occurrence?
She looked at me in rather a disconcerting manner.
Their country-place, Styles Court, had been purchased by Mr. Cavendish early in their married life.
I was opening my lips, when Poirot stopped me with a gesture of his hand.
He was so tremendously sure of himself.
Mary Cavendish was there, shaking the girl, who must have been an unusually sound sleeper, and trying to wake her.
"Do your investigations point to my mother having died a natural death...or...or must we prepare ourselves for the worst?"
Because, in all this house of mourning, yours are the only eyes that have wept."
Finally, he would point out to the jury that there was evidence against other people besides John Cavendish.
"He was considered one of the finest detectives of his day."
One thing her evidence has shown me.
"Something which makes me doubt if what you say can be true."
That is why I have been careful to remain in the background.
not wonder that the blood rose to John's face in a crimson tide. "Mary!" "Well?"
Do not move till I come."
And he glanced at the daylight.
"Next time you happen to be alone with Lawrence Cavendish, I want you to say this to him.
Was the sorrow at Mrs. Inglethorp's death so great?
"I must have an ally in the house," he observed reflectively.
"The sample of cocoa I took from the saucepan in the bedroom."
"Well, Mr. Lawrence Cavendish's evidence for instance?"
"Well, we shall see," I said, nettled.
did not change. The pleading
I myself nearly had the same idea.
"About quarter-past seven, I should say, sir."
She was crying and wringing her hands.
If Miss Howard were capable of poisoning the old lady, she would be quite equally capable of simulating devotion.
The neatness of his attire was almost incredible.
Instantly, Sir Ernest's chin was shooting pugnaciously forward.
Mrs. Cavendish did not believe her.
You can draw your own deductions from them.
"Let me tell you this, Hastings.
"Thank you, Manning, that will do," said Poirot pleasantly.
The heaviness and languor of her manner were very marked.
I felt an inexpressible lightening of the heart.
interesting," said Poirot quickly. "Yes, it
We entered the house by one of the windows.
As I came out again, I cannoned into a little man who was just entering.
"Why, that there is altogether too much strychnine about this case.
Poirot came to the point at once, with a business-like briskness.
But, if we are right?
I was absent from the house the entire afternoon."
"Ah, my friend, one may live in a big house and yet have no comfort."
This she handed to Poirot, murmuring as she did so the cryptic words: "On top of the wardrobe."
His physiognomy underwent a complete change.
There had been times when I hardly thought that Poirot appreciated me at my 1 worth.
Just before tea, I strolled down to tell Poirot of the new disappointment, but found, to my annoyance, that he was once more out.
Strange infatuation of an otherwise sensible woman!
"But it's not locked now."
The two detectives strode away, Summerhaye with an incredulous grin on his face.
He reflected for a moment, and then asked: "Was Mrs. Inglethorp herself aware of that fact?"
We always keep it in the hall drawer.
After a moment's hesitation, he replaced it in the chest, heaped all the other things on top of it as before, and made his way briskly downstairs.
"I need not tell you, my dear Cavendish, how distressed I am at this most tragic affair."
Manning fixed the time at about 4.30, William was of the opinion that it was rather earlier.
"The instinct that led me to insist on examining those coffee-cups.
I shall never forget them.
The flush deepened as Cynthia replied: "Oh, yes, I did make up some sleeping powders for her once."
Something unusually nervous and excited in his manner roused my curiosity.
It occurred to me very forcibly at that moment that to harbour Miss Howard and Alfred Inglethorp under the same roof, and keep the peace between them, was likely to prove a Herculean task, and I did not envy John.
asked John, unable to help a faint smile.
"You have not told me if Mrs. Inglethorp ate well last night."
But, seriously, in spite of what I heard you say to the detectives, you surely cannot still believe in the possibility of Alfred Inglethorp's innocence?"
Annie had been growing redder and redder in the face, and now she blurted out unexpectedly: "And if there was salt in it, sir, it wasn't me.
"Well, I've always had a secret hankering to be a detective!"
John Cavendish looked at her helplessly.
3 represents the highly magnified surface of a tiny bottle in the top poison cupboard of the dispensary in the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster...which sounds like the house that Jack built!"
He is a sensitive man in his way, he would not force himself upon her if she did not want him.
"Later, I came back to the hall; but it was all quiet.
It struck me that it would be a good opportunity to deliver my message.
The inquest isn't until Friday."
"Do you really know what's in them all?"
"Poirot," I asked earnestly, "have you made up your mind about this crime?"
A lady in England lost her life by taking a similar mixture: the precipitated strychnine collected at the bottom, and in taking the last dose she swallowed nearly all of it!'
He did not seem to have heard her, for without a word he turned on his heel and went out of the house.
"Not in a case of poisoning."
I have prepared a list of them...names and addresses.
"In consequence of that quarrel, your mother very suddenly and hurriedly makes a new will.
Poirot had walked over to the mantel-piece.
After this, as it was growing late, the case was adjourned till Monday.
"Look here," I said, "I may be altogether wrong.
"I will take it to Emily."
In a moment or two he was back.
"Indeed," said John with a certain stiffness in his manner.
She could not be implicated...otherwise I should have heard some hint of it.
"You needn't think your pretty explanations influence me in the slightest.
Then he added rather hesitatingly: "Shall we have to appear as witnesses...all of us, I mean?"
"And that is all you can tell us?"
No, he was simply a way of escape from the insufferable monotony of my life."
"Even now," I said, "I can hardly believe it.
At six o'clock, Miss Howard, disguised as Alfred Inglethorp, enters the chemist's shop, with her story about a dog, obtains the strychnine, and writes the name of Alfred Inglethorp in John's handwriting, which she had previously studied carefully.
As you say, it will be known soon enough."
Had Mrs. Inglethorp discovered something between her and Bauerstein, and threatened to tell her husband?
Mr. Wells bowed his head.
Tomorrow the daily papers, all over England, would blazon out the news in staring headlines: "MYSTERIOUS TRAGEDY IN ESSEX" "WEALTHY LADY POISONED" There would be pictures of Styles, snap-shots of "The family leaving the Inquest"...the village photographer had not been idle!
The moment I heard of a fire being lighted in Mrs. Inglethorp's room, I leaped to the conclusion that it was to destroy some important document...possibly a will.
Just for a moment I had a premonition of approaching evil.
Half a moment, though, isn't there a door into Miss Cynthia's rooms?"
"Long enough for a gentleman who had once studied medicine to gratify a very natural interest and curiosity."
the event of Mrs. Inglethorp's death, who would inherit her money?" The
Her death was a shock and a distress, but she would not be passionately regretted.
Various witnesses testified to the accuracy of these statements.
That should have conveyed something to you."
He had stepped outside the French window, and was standing, apparently lost in admiration, before the various shaped flower beds.
If it had been Monsieur John, I could have understood it.
Dorcas's evidence on this point was substantially what Poirot and I had already heard, so I will not repeat it here.
In spite of her laugh, Mary was looking thoughtful this morning.
Surely no woman as beautiful as Mary Cavendish could be a murderess.
The idea crossed my mind, not for the first time, that poor old Poirot was growing old.
Occasionally she referred to her husband over a question of days or dates.
Unknown to herself, Annie had provided us with an important piece of evidence.
"My mother was very beautiful, I believe.
What she saw in the man I cannot imagine, but she was always asking him up to the house, and often went off for long expeditions with him.
Poirot hopped down briskly, and went inside.
There was a tremor in his voice, and he had gone very pale.
He sprang up at my entrance.
"One thing at a time.
"You would not allow it?"
John, I knew, was very fond of her, and would be sorry to let her go.
"Have you anyone who can testify to that?"
Otherwise, Poirot himself might relieve me of it.
I dare say he soaked fly paper, as I told you at the beginning."
"When I examined the room, yes.
The house which the Belgians occupied in the village was quite close to the park gates.
Her glance at Mary had set me thinking.
"Then you consider it more likely that the drug was administered in the coffee, but that for some unknown reason its action was delayed."
They tried to be too clever...and that was their undoing."
A young girl in V. A. D. uniform ran lightly across the lawn.
When all the time we know perfectly well......"
If all had gone as they planned, they would probably have left England, and lived together on their poor victim's money.
"The important fact that Monsieur Inglethorp wears very peculiar clothes, has a black beard, and uses glasses."
Do you think she would show it to me?"
She took us up to her sanctum, and introduced us to her fellow dispenser, a rather awe-inspiring individual, whom Cynthia cheerily addressed as 'Nibs'.
"Well, what am I to tell Poirot?"
"In that case, is it not possible that the articles in question might have been put there by a third person, and that the prisoner was quite unaware of their presence?"
Plastered with mud from head to foot."
Japp closed one eye knowingly.
Now Cynthia had looked charming.
"A funny place for a piece of brown paper," I mused.
Couldn't it have been about half-past three?"
See, then, my good Japp, you go at once to Styles?"
And you never told me?
Dr. Wilkins was looking important and excited, and trying to conceal an inward exultation under a manner of decorous calm.
"Pardon me, madame, for recalling unpleasant memories, but I have a little idea"...Poirot's "little ideas" were becoming a perfect byword..."and would like to ask one or two questions." "Of me?
"Then how do you account for the fact that you left the unmistakable impress of your finger-prints on it?"
"Is it not a fact that, at the time you claim to have been waiting about at a solitary and unfrequented spot, you were really in the chemist's shop in Styles St. Mary, where you purchased strychnine in the name of Alfred Inglethorp?"
Quite an hour, or even more, had elapsed between the time when she had heard the voices and 5 o'clock, when she had taken tea to her mistress.
You are known to be working with me.
"Did you see anything of what was written above her signature?"
He was a marvellous little fellow.
At the top, it bore the printed stamp of Messrs. Parkson's, the well-known theatrical costumiers, and it was addressed to "...(the debatable initial) Cavendish, Esq., Styles Court, Styles St. Mary, Essex."
All the way to Styles, Mary talked fast and feverishly.
Poirot looked at her keenly.
"Yes, but this affair is more important."
In fact, they would be more audible where you were than in the hall."
doctors can tell us that, Mr. Mace." "Yes,
I could only conclude that Poirot was mad.
That object, it concerns Mr. Alfred Inglethorp."
Since her marriage, of course......" he broke off, frowning.
"How did you hear the news?"
I presume Mrs. Inglethorp took the coffee after dinner about eight o'clock, whereas the symptoms did not manifest themselves until the early hours of the morning, which, on the face of it, points to the drug having been taken much later in the evening."
"I couldn't rightly say, sir; it was shut but I couldn't say whether it was bolted or not."
Bauerstein had it analysed...that's just it!
We were all busy during the morning arranging and decorating the Hall in the village where it was to take place.
I suppose, I may not ask you, monsieur, what first led you to suspect the fact?"
I admire the man myself."
Mary had excused herself on the plea of an engagement with Dr. Bauerstein.
I saw a strange look come into Dorcas's eyes.
Now, what are we to do?
But, as it will never do if John, too, can prove an alibi, she writes him an anonymous note...still copying his hand-writing...which takes him to a remote spot where it is exceedingly unlikely that anyone will see him.
Since I was here an hour ago.
He has just rushed past me like a mad bull."
"Still...I do not see..." I began.
And I don't know what to do.
Under Sir Ernest's skilful handling, he told his tale credibly and well.
"I am quite sure of it.
"What a steady hand you've got," I remarked.
At the close of his examination, he paused, and said: "I should like to make one thing clear.
If anyone has seen either of them touching the medicine, they will have forgotten it by that time.
At Styles, Mr. Inglethorp will give you, or if he refuses...as is probable...I probable...I will give you such proofs that shall satisfy you that the case against him could not possibly be sustained.
Turning to Annie, one of the housemaids, he sent her downstairs to the dining-room for brandy.
You believe him capable of committing it.
"Yes, and from the enormous risk he ran we can see how fully he realized its importance.
Have you lighted the fire in my room as I told you?"
Cynthia was back from the hospital, and I placed my chair beside her, and told her of Poirot's wish to visit the dispensary.
They were shining like emeralds now.
Some one might have talked afterwards.
"Is there anything the matter, Aunt Emily?"
I think that for the first time we realized that the thing was not a bad dream, but a tangible reality.
"That, of course, I cannot say, but...shall I tell you my own private opinion, Hastings?"
She took the last one two days ago, and she didn't have any more made up."
They had sent the beard, as directed, to 'L.
"He knows more about poisons than almost anybody," I explained.
Poirot shook his head gravely.
Thenceforward, he strenuously, and quite uselessly, upheld the theory of 'Death from natural causes'.""And
For one instant he stopped dead, staring at the figure on the bed, and, at the same instant, Mrs. Inglethorp cried out in a strangled voice, her eyes fixed on the doctor: "Alfred...Alfred......" Then she fell back motionless on the pillows.
This was naturally gratifying, but Poirot's next words were not so welcome.
Getting no answer, I repeated my summons impatiently.
He took out the charred fragment we had found in the grate in Mrs. Inglethorp's room, and handed it to the lawyer with a brief explanation of when and where he had found it.
At the same moment, a man stepped out from the shadow of a tree and walked slowly in the same direction.
"Don't ask me about it," continued Miss Howard, "because I shan't tell you.
"Where I come from, who I was before I married John...anything, in fact?
Mary Cavendish could certainly not rest under suspicion.
There was the faintest pause, the mere hesitation of a moment, before she answered: "Yes, that is so."
This lock has been forced."
"Locked up in the desk in the boudoir, they found a will of Mrs. Inglethorp's, dated before her marriage, leaving her fortune to Alfred Inglethorp.
broke simultaneously from both men.
"I can't feel as you do, Lawrence," he said at last.
The medical evidence was next taken.
"I perceive your thoughts, mon ami," said Poirot, smiling at me.
"Well, I think it is very unfair to keep back facts from me."
tell you, that was a surprise to us all. There must
Presumably, then, between 4.30 and 5 o'clock, something has occurred to occasion a complete revolution of feeling, since she is now as anxious to destroy the will, as she was before to make it.
"It may be so," I said, fascinated by Poirot's eloquence.
The witness admitted that such might be the case, and Sir Ernest signified that he was satisfied.
A kind of wooden shutter of officialdom came down from Japp's expressive countenance.
Cynthia Murdoch was a fresh-looking young creature, full of life and vigour.
She would be one of the last people to take her own life.
"Still, Mrs. Inglethorp might have done so.
'I don't know what to do,' she says.
"Yes, indeed," said Poirot seriously.
lawyer hesitated a moment, and then replied: "The knowledge will be public property very soon, so if Mr. Cavendish does not object......" "Not at all," interpolated John. "I
Mr. Philips' incredulous sniff was a triumph of forensic skill.
"Have some coffee, and tell us what you have been up to."
It was in my mind when I asked Mr. Wells that first question about the will.
He examined it carefully, and then, nimbly whipping out a pair of small forceps from his case, he drew out some minute particle which he carefully sealed up in a tiny envelope.
strychnine has an unusually bitter taste. It can
"Yes, I quite understood your distress."
And I know the next thing you're going to say is: 'How many people have you poisoned?'"
They were quite...tetanic in character."
The woods round Styles were very beautiful.
He gave vent to a prodigious whistle, as I imparted the news.
I exclaimed, as my eye travelled round the small room.
She has been kind and generous to these Cavendishes, but she was not their own mother.
When I came through the hall again a few minutes later, it was gone."
But, at lunch-time, there arrived a new piece of evidence...or rather lack of evidence.
Next, he examined the framework of the door we had broken in, assuring himself that the bolt had really been shot.
John and the lawyer looked at him startled.
"I mean," said Poirot deliberately, "that you are suspected of poisoning your wife."
"Could not Mrs. Inglethorp have made a will in her favour?"
He suddenly produced a small cardboard box, such as chemists use for powders.
I am afraid I showed my surprise rather plainly.
Perhaps four o'clock...or it may have been a bit later.
He looked quickly round the room.
A shadow fell on the bed and, looking up, I saw Mary Cavendish standing near the door with her arm around Cynthia.
It struck me that in some way she was nervous of Poirot's eyes.
Evidently something very momentous had occurred that afternoon.
Nobody entered or left that boudoir.
It occurred to me that it would be a good opportunity to tackle her on the subject of Cynthia.
Probably water off a duck's back, though.
"Both of them, my friend?
I will take the latch-key."
"Well then," I blurted out, "it's absurd...but I suspect Miss Howard of not telling all she knows!"
Suddenly he gave an exclamation.
"My friend," replied Poirot, "I do not know what you are talking about."
"Here comes Miss Howard," said Poirot suddenly.
It is near the window, this cupboard?"
He took an old envelope out of his pocket, and wrote his name on it, handing it to the jury.
There was a breathless hush, and every eye was fixed on the famous London specialist, who was known to be one of the greatest authorities of the day on the subject of toxicology.
"There, Poirot, you are quite wrong!
And I described the doctor's adventure.
I have a certain talent for deduction, and Dr. Bauerstein's manner had started a flock of wild surmises in my mind.
Poirot looked round the room, and then answered himself impressively.
Now in the opposite corner of the room stood her husband's desk...locked.
But I did not take it to her.
"I must hurry on," I said, thankful that he did not ask me whither I was bound.
Mrs. Cavendish administered a safe, but effectual, narcotic to both Mrs. Inglethorp and Mademoiselle Cynthia.
No, Lawrence...that's the poison cupboard.
"I'd forgotten that," I admitted.
"It is...it is...that I have an idea!"
John, I think, would have pressed his questions further, but at that moment the loud purr of a motor was audible, and we all turned to the window as it swept past.
He poured it out, and went out of the room carrying it carefully.
"And the letter came from there?"
I did not wonder at John objecting to his beard.
You couldn't really hoodwink them.
Miss Howard rose immediately from her seat.
I will not describe to you the special apparatus, dusting powder, etc., which I used.
Why did you not tell me?
Ah, those were great days, moosier.
It is necessary for every one to attend."
It is all right...only it will be tonight instead of last night.
"Do you understand now, monsieur?"
"Then she certainly did mind very much," remarked Poirot.
There was a pretty rogue for you!
"You do see, don't you, that you have no right to dictate to me as to the choice of my friends?"
"Because he is in love with her."
"Well, I learnt that Miss Howard had been on afternoon duty on Tuesday, and that...a convoy coming in unexpectedly...she had kindly offered to remain on night duty, which offer was gratefully accepted.
"Then all are accounted for.
I could see neither rhyme nor reason in it.
John, I knew, had a horror of any kind of publicity, and was an easygoing optimist, who preferred never to meet trouble half-way.
"There was no need to introduce it.
His excuse was an obviously trumped up one.
Say it over again, will you?"
I went on, 'I'm going to warn you, whether you like it or not.
Crossing the room to the left-hand window, a round stain, hardly visible on the dark brown carpet, seemed to interest him particularly.
"Well, of course, that settles it," I said stiffly.
"Do you remember, mademoiselle, that I once asked you to help me?"
He prepares no defence...no shadow of an alibi, yet he knows the chemist's assistant must necessarily come forward with the facts.
She had, about a year before, executed a will in favour of the prisoner.
"Yet her hatred of Inglethorp seems almost a mania.
"Yes, she showed them to us.
That suggested to me at once that it had possibly been wrenched off a flimsy key-ring.
It was a splendid life...I loved it."
Poirot's abrupt departure had intrigued us all greatly.
And not another word on the subject could I drag out of him.
He enters the room, unlocking the door by means of one of the other doorkeys...they were all much alike.
"Started the moment I got the wire.
I had some warm moments in that court; I did not figure to myself that the man would be so pig-headed as to refuse to say anything at all.
The sinister face of Dr. Bauerstein recurred to me unpleasantly.
Her conversation, I soon found, was couched in the telegraphic style.
A wild idea flashed across me.
"Then show it to me."
"We propose that it should take place tomorrow night...or rather tonight."
He was already under suspicion, and by making the matter public I secured the services of about ten amateur detectives, who would be watching him unceasingly, and being himself aware of their watchfulness he would not dare seek further to destroy the document.
to understand that you will continue to see Bauerstein against my express wishes?" "If I
said; and then swiftly passed out of the little glade, leaving John standing there as though he had been turned to stone.
She knew that her mother-in-law invariably kept all important papers in this particular case.
he asked anxiously, as we walked through the park.
I did not want to mention the name of the person who was actually in my mind.
"What Mr. Cavendish suggests is quite impossible.
Somehow, I was not quite as elated as I might have been.
"Which simplifies matters very much," murmured the lawyer.
In vain Mary and John tried to administer more brandy.
The old servant hesitated, then added diffidently: "Don't you think, m'm, you'd better get to bed?
"I must confess that the conclusions I drew from those few scribbled words were quite erroneous."
I won't admit it, even to myself.
"Hold your fire, Summerhaye," he remarked jocularly.
Therefore it must have been Mrs. Cavendish who entered the deceased's room through the door communicating with Mademoiselle Cynthia's room."
"This is a very pleasant meeting for me, Miss Cynthia.
"Well, my idea is, that perhaps he's found some way of making strychnine tasteless.
The preliminaries were gone through.
This is a great discovery."
Yet I was a little chary of doing so.
Then it must be later than I thought.
It had been found in Mrs. Inglethorp's cheque book, and on being reversed at a mirror, showed clearly the words: erything of which I die possessed I leave to my beloved husband Alfred Ing..."
She therefore opened the desk, and in searching for the stamps she came across something else...that slip of paper which Dorcas saw in her hand, and which assuredly was never meant for Mrs. Inglethorp's eyes.
"In the waste-paper waste-paper basket.
However, my confidence in him, which at one time had rather waned, was fully restored since his belief in Alfred Inglethorp's innocence had been so triumphantly vindicated.
"What is it, mon ami?"
Not one stray word or phrase to make you realize that it was a private conversation?"
"Why, what was there to lie about?"
"It must have been done since yesterday, otherwise a good housemaid would have at once removed it with blotting-paper and a hot iron.
He made me take the brooch out of my tie the other day, and put it in again, because he said it wasn't straight."
"I am very anxious, Messieurs, that he should not be arrested."
"You see," he said sadly, "you have no instincts."
I showed them all our exhibits.
"Very simple, as you said.
Don't think she ever realized it, though, or felt the lack of it.
But for espionage, mon ami."
That is why the finger-marks have remained undisturbed since then."
"My wife, Hastings," said John.
I merely obtained them for comparison.
Their step-mother, however, had always been most generous to them; indeed, they were so young at the time of their father's remarriage that they always thought of her as their own mother.
Suddenly he seemed to come to a decision.
The simplest explanation is always the most likely."
It was Number Six of my catalogue."
The jury viewed the body, and John Cavendish gave evidence of identification.
was bolted," replied Mary Cavendish, rather surprised."I said so
Allow me to interest myself in my coffee-cups, coffee-cups, and I will respect your cocoa.
"Yes, but what about the bitter taste that cocoa won't disguise?"
My mind is made up.
"Well," I grumbled, a little mollified.
"I could go if there's anything special."
Mary looked up at him, the colour slowly rising in her face.
I explained that I was afraid of obliterating any foot-marks.
"See here, it was like this," he said at last.
"The one that relates to the destruction of the will.
"This time it is an idea gigantic!
"Any more faults to find with the evidence?"
"She still had the letter, or whatever it was, in her hand?"
I was hurt, and showed it.
I shall never forget it.
Perhaps Annie could tell you, though she's a careless girl.
A False step......' Here, my friends, the letter breaks off.
For, about twelve feet away from me, John and Mary Cavendish were standing facing each other, and they were evidently quarrelling.
"You see, it is only suspicion so far.
I strolled on a little way, and finally flung myself down at the foot of a grand old beech-tree.
Was the family prostrated by grief?
If I had told you my ideas, the very first time you saw Mr. Alfred Inglethorp that astute gentleman would have...in your so expressive idiom...'smelt a rat'!
And I will tell you why."
But I eventually decided in favour of 'a woman's happiness'.
I see my duty clearly.
"Never mind, Dorcas, it is my business to know things.
With a nod that was barely civil, Miss Howard assented to Poirot's request for a few minutes' conversation.
"And very good reasons too," replied Poirot.
Evelyn Howard bowed her head.
It was Poirot who spoke.
What was to be done?
He got up and hummed a little tune.
The prisoner, on the contrary, was at that time at a lonely spot called Marston's Spinney, where he had been summoned by an anonymous note, couched in blackmailing terms, and threatening to reveal certain matters to his wife unless he complied with its demands
I come now to the events of the 16th and 17th of that month.
And can you tell me any of the names and addresses?"
"Perhaps," I said doubtfully, for I was really quite indifferent to the fate of Alfred Inglethorp, and thought that a good fright would do him no harm.
You say 'her last will.'
His absence was strange and inexplicable.
Poirot drew out the small bunch of keys.
"I'm sorry, sir, but it's clean gone.
"What did she mean by 'On the top of the wardrobe'?"
I have ascertained that anyone in the household, with the exception of Mrs. Cavendish, who was playing tennis with you, could have personated Mr. Inglethorp on Monday evening.
"Under the circumstances, I am afraid an inquest can hardly be avoided...these formalities are necessary, but I beg that you won't distress yourselves."
Wells is waiting for me.
"And the table, is it on this side of the door, or on the farther...servants' side?"
"I can't see why," I said, rather nettled.
At this juncture, Mrs. Inglethorp called to Cynthia from the hall, and the girl ran out.
he goes, round the corner!"
She seemed grave, almost sad.
And how can he best do that?
"They use the pure hydro-chloride of strychnine very little...only occasionally for pills.
I don't know what put such a wild...such a dreadful...idea into my head!"
"He has been here, then?"
Mr. Mace identified the phial handed him by Counsel as that sold by him to "Mr.
"On an average, she made a new will at least once a year," said Mr. Wells imperturbably.
You've been on the spot...and the Yard doesn't want to make any mistakes, you know."
There were also some tableaux in which Cynthia took part.
You will notice that the word 'possessed' is spelt first with one 's' and subsequently with two...correctly.
"Well, my friend," cried Poirot, before I could get in a word, "what do you think?
I have locked them and, in my opinion, they would be better kept locked for the present."
I won't cite Lawrence, or Mrs. Cavendish.
Her face and voice were absolutely cold and expressionless.
"Do not trouble, Mary," said Inglethorp.
"So you think that the cocoa...mark well what I say, Hastings, the cocoa...contained strychnine?"
I should think some one had taken charge of it."
I looked round, the others were out of earshot.
I don't know, because I never saw her.
"Then I discovered that I had been guilty of a very grave oversight.
"Well," said Mary, "I expect he will be back before dinner."
Our eyes met, and we stared helplessly at one another.
"Oh, well, I suppose there must be something in it, then.
You are not attending to what I say."
Judging from the quantity recovered, she must have taken not less than three-quarters of a grain of strychnine, but probably one grain or slightly over.
Sort of Madame Tussaud's chamber of horrors business that can be seen for nothing.
"She had only made it out that very afternoon!"
He was shielding Mademoiselle Cynthia."
Then, when I discovered that Inglethorp had nothing to do with Mrs. Raikes and that in fact it was John Cavendish who was interested in that quarter, I was quite sure."
Manning came slowly and hesitatingly through the French window, and stood as near it as he could.
You wish to believe he committed the crime.
Women are doing great work nowadays, and Mademoiselle Cynthia is clever...oh, yes, she has brains, that little one."
If you should need a father confessor, madame" ...she started ever so slightly..."remember, Papa Poirot is always at your service."
"Oh, pretty much what I expected."
I have an idea that I was out walking."
She had bolted the door leading into his room...a most unusual proceeding on her part...she had had a most violent quarrel with him that very afternoon.
"One of your 'little ideas'?"
I think every one was a little surprised that it should be he and not one of the official detectives who took the initiative.
And quite a different class from them two detectives from London, what goes prying about, and asking questions.
May I take your motor?"
With his tenderness for 'a woman's happiness', I felt glad that the decision had been taken out of his hands.
It is a very difficult situation for you, Mr. Cavendish.
"What day was it when you searched the prisoner's room?"
And at once a suspicion dawned in my mind.
See here, he knew that in his position he was bound to be suspected, so he conceived the exceedingly clever idea of preparing a lot of manufactured evidence against himself.
Further questioned, he described his awakening in the early hours of the morning, and the circumstances of his mother's death.
Pressed, he admitted that he only knew Mr. Inglethorp by sight.
It seemed to me the man would never go.
She was very much put out about it."
It leavens the"...she looked at him..."stolid stupidity of the ordinary Englishman." Fire in
We followed John into his study, and he closed the door behind us.
"If you will allow me to send for your gardener, I will prove it to you."
"Well, of course the war has turned the hundreds into thousands.
"But I suppose, as the last powder was taken two days ago, it is not of much importance?"
I was becoming quite excited, but Poirot damped my ardour by remarking: "Yet the explanation is quite simple.So do not intrigue yourself, my friend."
"I tell you, Mary, I won't have it."
Anyway, I kept my self-respect.
"You gave too much rein to your imagination.
But you could have knocked us all down with a feather when, three months ago, she suddenly announced that she and Alfred were engaged!
Something in her tone fired me, and I blurted out: "Old John's an awfully good sort."
I found: first, a fragment of green material; second, a stain on the carpet near the window, still damp; thirdly, an empty box of bromide powders.
Sisters are, you know, Mr. Hastings.
Lawrence is of the opinion that my mother died from heart seizure."
"Well, sir, you know how he asked me so particular if the mistress, or anyone else, had a green dress?"
The hastily aroused household come trooping down the passage.
"And what did he say?
I would rather like to see that dispensary of hers.
My mind is in some disorder...which is not well."
"You were planting a bed of begonias round by the south side of the house yesterday afternoon, were you not, Manning?"
Ask Cook if she's missed any."
"Do you know who that little man is?"
A spasm of pain crossed his face.
No, my friend, this evidence has been very cleverly manufactured...so cleverly that it has defeated its own ends."
At five o'clock, Mrs. Inglethorp rang the bell and told me to bring her a cup of tea...nothing to eat...to the boudoir.
Finally, he poured a few drops of the cocoa into a test tube, sealing it up carefully.
She tossed off her little V. A. D. cap, and I admired the great loose waves of her auburn hair, and the smallness and whiteness of the hand she held out to claim her tea.
This, we trust, will effectually silence the sensational rumours which still persist.
You know Inglethorp said he had put down the coffee in the hall?
Sir Ernest Heavywether rose ponderously.
She was the very model and picture of a good old-fashioned servant.
There was no one in the hall, and we went straight up to the attic.
"No, I do not say it is so, but it might be.
The medicine had not been newly made up.
Can you explain them in any way?"
"Nor a mantle, nor a cape, nor a...how do you call it?...a sports coat?"
I suppose every one has."
He hurries to the despatch-case...it is locked, and the keys are nowhere to be seen.
"Oh, it's pleasant enough if you want to lead the idle life.
"And he will be able, at his leisure, to come back and destroy this solitary piece of evidence against him."
Was he at last convinced of Alfred Inglethorp's guilt?
This placed beyond question the fact that the destroyed will had been in favour of the deceased lady's husband.
died out of his voice. "Am I
Screaming headlines in every paper in the country...damn all journalists, I say!
What was this complication of a will?
I took an early opportunity of verifying my conjectures.
"I'll help you to hang Alfred with pleasure," she replied gruffly.
"When did you change your mind?"
It is because you have been trying to believe what you wish to believe.
If the fact will not fit the theory...let the theory go."
She may have forgotten to bolt the door into the passage when she went to bed, and have got up later, towards morning, and bolted it then."
I was bewildered, but I knew that it was no good asking him to explain.
John rang the bell, and ordered round the car.
It was only human nature to endeavour to please 'The Hall'...especially when it might result in custom being transferred from Coot's to the local establishment.
But what does it mean?"
Because...because...who could have done it?
But for him, we should never have known of this will.
behaved like an imbecile! I should
"I might have included that in the six, but I did not.
"True, but you are not sufficient."
"Don't think it was sent after him.
"That's another who is not telling all she knows!
"He is, of course, a German by birth," said Poirot thoughtfully, "though he has practiced so long in this country that nobody thinks of him as anything but an Englishman.
"She said that she did not mind at all."
I am not usually clumsy.
At least, we hope so.
Cynthia was waiting for me, and greeted me eagerly with: "I say!
And then, bon jour to our chances of catching him!"
Yet, in Mrs. Inglethorp's case, the symptoms do not manifest themselves until five o'clock the next morning: nine hours!
Mrs. Cavendish fanned herself gently with a palm leaf.
We had rather a scramble to get ready in time; and before the meal was over the motor was waiting at the door.
from that moment, I was equally determined that he should not be arrested."
But I'm certain I'd know.
Japp then produced the charred fragment of paper recovered from the grate, and this, with the discovery of the beard in the attic, completed his evidence.
But, in his anxiety, the criminal has drawn the net so closely that one cut will set Inglethorp free."
For the first time, it occurred to me to wonder about the girl's future.
I watched her as she sat at the head of the table, graceful, composed, enigmatic.
"I beg your pardon, he saw a man with a black beard like Mr. Inglethorp's, and wearing glasses like Mr. Inglethorp, and dressed in Mr. Inglethorp's rather noticeable clothes.
"And yet you say he may be acquitted?"
He was the opposite of his brother in almost every respect, being unusually shy and reserved.
Are they often used, may I ask?"
He's gone through every penny he ever had, publishing rotten verses in fancy bindings.
"Yes, and it was a race for time."
She would have had to take very nearly the whole bottle to account for the amount of strychnine found at the post-mortem."
Her presence had spelt security.
"Poirot," I said, "I wish you would tell me why you wanted to know if Mrs. Inglethorp ate well last night?
They were entirely in the dark as to my real attitude up to the very last moment...which moment...which partly accounts for my success."
The colour rose in her cheeks as she held out her hand to him.
"I still think you might have given me a hint."
Clearly something must be done.
"Because, so long as the evidence against him was vague and intangible, it was very hard to disprove.
Evidence as to his intrigue with Mrs. Raikes...poor Mary, that must have been bitter hearing for a woman of her pride.
It must be Alfred Inglethorp."
Suddenly, he gave a faint exclamation.
"It seems to me very simple.
After relating the earlier events, he proceeded: "Acting on information received, Superintendent Summerhaye and myself searched the prisoner's room, during his temporary absence from the house.
When he entered his mother's room, and saw her obviously poisoned, he jumped to the conclusion that Mademoiselle Cynthia knew something about the matter.
"Do you mean to say you did not hear voices?"
But in the meantime what was I to do?
John Cavendish frowned and changed the subject.
He still kept his eyes fixed on him as he spoke.
There has already been practically an army in the room!
We are really thinking of bestowing a prize on the first individual who does not say: 'What a lot of bottles!'
A faint cloud passed over John's face.
Probably any other of the doorkeys in this passage would fit it."
But he was too clever to take any chances.
She certainly could not be a day less than seventy now.
Then he drew up a chair to the table, and, to my utter amazement, began solemnly to build card houses!
I must have made some murmur of dissent, for she went on quickly: "Oh, yes, he did!
To my intense surprise, he replied that, on the contrary, he was extremely likely to be acquitted.
As a detective, his flair had been extraordinary, and he had achieved triumphs by unravelling some of the most baffling cases of the day.
My room was in the left wing, and looked out over the park.
"It is true, my friend.
Poirot went up to her and pleaded in a low voice.
The shock of the events of the last night had upset him temporarily, but his equable poise soon swung back to the normal.
But for your lucky remark, we might never have been able to bring him to justice."
In another moment, the door opened and Dorcas appeared.
"Well, no one exactly told me," I confessed.
God forgive me if I am wronging him!"
it is gone. It is
"What kind of a row?"
He merely remarked: "Good, we will leave that and pass on.
As she stood there, with her honest face upturned to mine, I thought what a fine specimen she was of the old-fashioned servant that is so fast dying out.
It's an interesting little place."
"But, look here, Bauerstein had had it analysed already?"
"Show Monsieur Poirot everything he wants to see."
But how had anyone gained admission?
"No, they were bromide powders."
"Like a good detective story myself," remarked Miss Howard.
I didn't want to arouse the household, so Denby gave me a bed."
Then she looked at her watch.
Her hand clenched itself on the banisters, then she seemed to nerve herself for some encounter, and went rapidly past me down the stairs across the hall to the boudoir, the door of which she shut behind her.
"Well, what do you think?"
I felt certain that at that moment she would willingly have torn the little lawyer, with his insinuations, into pieces, but she replied quietly enough: "No.
Quick as thought, she hurries back to the young girl's room, and starts shaking her awake.
In the meantime, remember it."
Mrs. Inglethorp didn't have a candle, only a reading-lamp."
But you did not see it?"
He thought the facts had been misrepresented.
Imagination is a good servant, and a bad master.
I had an additional reason for that belief in the fact that all the cups found contained sugar, which Mademoiselle Cynthia never took in her coffee.
And yet you affirm so confidently that it came from Styles.
An expression gathered there that I can only describe as half puzzled, and half relieved.
"She gave you no hint as to what that matter might be?"
I thought about the crime, and it struck me as being very unreal and far off.
We will look at the chest, although...but no matter...we will examine it all the same."
"Well, well, my friend, I will be guided by you."
His evidence was quite unimportant, being a mere repetition of that of his brother.
I took an early opportunity of testing that statement by stationing my friend Monsieur Hastings in the left wing of the building, just outside Mrs. Cavendish's door.
Compared to John, he was an astoundingly difficult person to get to know.
You can say what you like to me, but remember what I've told you.
I was relieved when she shook me by the hand, with her well remembered painful grip.
"The same address to which you sent the parcel?"
We were sitting in the library.
That John Cavendish still loved his wife, I was convinced.
Did you ever in your heart of hearts believe that Mrs. Inglethorp was poisoned by her husband?"
"Mary"...his voice was very quiet now..."are you in love with this fellow Bauerstein?" She hesitated,
But I don't at all see how it could have been done.
"Why, if it isn't too delightful to see you again, Mr. Hastings, after all these years.
She was sorry for my disappointment, and showed me everything in the kindest way."
"How many people do you poison?"
He wore gold-rimmed pince-nez, and had a curious impassivity of feature.
He'd better come to tea there one day.
"Perhaps you are right, Poirot," I said gently.
You will remember my speaking of a stain on the carpet in Mrs. Inglethorp's room?
"Do you mean to say you suspected him as long ago as that?"
"Miss Howard," said Poirot gravely, "this is unworthy of you."
It is a well-known process to the police, and by means of it you can obtain a photograph of the finger-prints of any object in a very short space of time.
"It will be the talk of the village!
"What is it all about?"
not serious, Poirot?" "I am
A howl that was almost a scream broke the silence.
"Then, if there had been a large patch of candle grease on the floor, you think you would have been sure to have seen it?"
Little Wilkins would have been quite content to let it go at heart disease."
"Dr. Bauerstein, now, what was he doing up and dressed at that hour in the morning?
I had often before noticed that, if anything excited him, his eyes turned green like a cat's.
"I suppose," said Lawrence quietly, "that I should."
I must say I was overjoyed to see him in the plight he was in on Tuesday.
We went straight to the connecting door.
"There I know you're wrong," I said warmly.
"Yes, but that was mere chance.
Dr. Wilkins was recalled and ridiculed the idea.
That will be sprung upon us at the trial.
"Tuesday, the 24th of July."
Or it may not have been strychnine at all, but some obscure drug no one has ever heard of, which produces much the same symptoms."
"In fact, the letter, though written on stamped notepaper, might have been posted from anywhere?
It was a real old bust-up.
I wondered how I could have been so unobservant as to overlook this.
"I mean," explained Poirot, "you are sure it was bolted, and not merely locked?"
You are so thoughtful, Alfred dear."
Though the good God gave her no beauty!"
"How did you manage to take this photograph?"
"All you have said is quite true, Monsieur Poirot.
That lifts a great load from my mind."
I will tell you, my friend: Because they are both clean-shaven men.
Detective-inspector Detective-inspector Japp was the first witness called when the trial was reopened, and gave his evidence succinctly and briefly.
But murder's a violent crime.
As for Evie...you remember Evie?"
Poirot's mysterious doings, his hints...they all fitted in.
And, if they were already straightened, there would be no need to straighten them again, unless, in the meantime, some one else had touched them."
He nodded his head gravely.
"Mademoiselle," he said gravely, "I want to ask you something."
Miss Howard was obviously quite a public character.
The brutality of the question called a flush to Lawrence's pale face.
"That is as enigmatical as ever.
"Therefore she drank it between then and half-past eight...certainly not much later.
Poirot and I sat together, not being required to give evidence.
He rose at last, however, and I breathed a sigh of relief.
He goes boldly to the village chemist's and purchases strychnine under his own name, with a trumped up story about a dog which is bound to be proved absurd.
The whole thing would have come out, then, and he would have been in an awkward position, for no one would have believed that a man of his reputation could have been deceived into calling it heart disease."
I wondered really whether she is quite sane on that point."
We don't want any unnecessary scandal."
"I have got a cousin who is nursing," I remarked.
We went up together to the room of the tragedy.
Accordingly, I went to the little house with the "Apartments" card inserted in the window, where I knew he lodged, and tapped on the door.
To begin with, the fragment corresponds exactly with a tear in Mrs. Cavendish's armlet.
They are kept locked up in a little cupboard.
Mr. Poirot, I'm sorry for the inconvenience, but I heard that you'd just come back from the Hall?" "Yes,
"These are the keys of the two rooms.
"But I must ask you to trust me.
Evelyn Howard had been right then, and I experienced a sharp twinge of disgust, as I thought of Alfred Inglethorp's liberality with another woman's money.
"I was never so glad to see anyone.
2 were those of Mademoiselle Cynthia.
Dare say he soaked fly papers.
My thoughts flew to Mary Cavendish, and I hedged: "In what way?"
A little gasp ran round the circle at this plain speaking.
"No, took by the perlice."
"It was intelligence you were requiring just now," I pointed out.
"Oh, my friend, have I not said to you all along that I have no proofs.
"I must make my apologies," said the doctor.
He could not recognize a man whom he had probably only seen in the distance, since, you remember, he himself had only been in the village a fortnight, and Mrs. Inglethorp dealt principally with Coot's in Tadminster."
You will do the only thing that I want of you."
"And you signed where she told you?"
But Sir Ernest's cross-examination was yet to come.
"Well, sir, she slipped it into a long envelope, and put it inside a sort of purple box that was standing on the desk."
You'll see what I mean."
I saw that a faint streak of daylight was showing through the curtains of the windows, and that the clock on the mantelpiece pointed to close upon five o'clock.
Poirot, however, did not seem grateful to me for my forbearance.
He rushed past me crying out: 'A garage!
"It's very confusing," I agreed.
It might be difficult to convince him of the soundness of my plan.
"What did she do with it afterwards?"
"Ask away," said the lady, eyeing him with some disfavour.
"Tell him I don't know what he's talking about.
Now tell me, what is that initial...J. or L.?"
To make that clear to you, I will read you an extract from a book on dispensing which I found in the Dispensary of the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster: 'The following prescription has become famous in text books: Strychninae mixed with Bromide.
I'd rather hush it up if I could.'
"I understand you to say that it never entered your head that the witnesses at the inquest could possibly have mistaken your voice for that of Mr. Inglethorp.
"Dorcas, will you tell Manning to come round and speak to me here."
It is confusing; and, as you know, I do not like confusion."
"Look at it from his point of view.
"Really," I continued, "it's her extraordinary vehemence against Inglethorp that started me off suspecting her.
that is used in most medicines.
I myself had been given a job at the War Office, so was able to see them continually.
"Poirot," I said, "what was in this particular little bottle?"
Still, it is a possibility to be taken into account.
It was really almost like a conjuring trick.
A small purple despatch-case, with a key in the lock, on the writing-table, engaged his attention for some time.
I should never have suspected them of being official personages.
I could not help rejoicing that, for once, one of his "little ideas" had come to naught.
"Better now...very sudden...stupid of me...to lock myself in."
She led the way round the house to where tea was spread under the shade of a large sycamore.
"No, I shouldn't say so, sir.
Dorcas, faithful to her "young gentlemen," denied strenuously that it could have been John's voice she heard, and resolutely declared, in the teeth of everything, that it was Mr. Inglethorp who had been in the boudoir with her mistress.
"But she had a duplicate key?"
He did not have it tested, as I did, for a narcotic."
two possibilities. Either her sleep
It fitted, and he opened the box, but after a moment's hesitation, closed and relocked it, and slipped the bunch of keys, as well as the key that had originally stood in the lock, into his own pocket.
The little nurse withdrew, and Cynthia promptly took a jar from the shelf, refilled the bottle, and placed it on the table outside the door.
"The important fact that Alfred Inglethorp wears peculiar clothes, has a black beard, and uses glasses," I quoted.
And Alfred Inglethorp must not be arrested.
"When Mr. Hastings and Mr. Lawrence came in yesterday evening, they found your mistress busy writing letters.
I relinquished the piece of paper, and watched him put it away in his case, with the same methodical care that he bestowed on everything.
"Is that where she usually kept important papers?"
It tells you more...shall I go on?"
I expressed my appreciation, and John took me into the house and up the broad staircase, which forked right and left half-way to different wings of the building.
"You work at Tadminster, don't you, Miss Murdoch?"
As we walked briskly away from the house, I glanced at him more than once.
There were therefore three witnesses who could swear that Mrs. Inglethorp was carrying her coffee, as yet untasted, in her hand.
"You will help me in spite of yourself.
The gardener glanced at his master, who nodded, whereupon Manning lifted a finger to his forehead with a low mumble, and backed cautiously out of the window.
His physiognomy underwent a curious change.
He also denied having quarrelled with his wife.
His back was much bent, though he was probably not as old as he looked, but his eyes were sharp and intelligent, and belied his slow and rather cautious speech.
"Don't you think you could possibly let us have it tonight?"
But I should be obliged if you would tell us all you overheard of the quarrel the day before."
I beg of you to reply to it truthfully."
enough, there he was, tearing down the street, hatless, and gesticulating as he went. I
I will go with you.
You could have heard a pin drop.
I pleaded guilty with a laugh.
I took him down to the boudoir which he had expressed a wish to see, and went myself in search of Dorcas.
John introduced us both, and explained the reason of our presence.
"It is this, mon ami!
"I happened to notice that it was bolted."
Miss Howard's evidence, unimportant as it was, had been given in such a downright straightforward manner that it had never occurred to me to doubt her sincerity.
"But you do not know, inspector, how I have been persecuted and maligned."
And this is just what did happen, in the shape of a communication, which arrived by the second post from a firm of French music publishers, acknowledging Mrs. Inglethorp's cheque, and regretting they had been unable to trace a certain series of Russian folksongs.
"I should like to see a good flare up.
He then made a very careful examination of the drawers of the wash-stand.
He seemed to see something over here"...I indicated the mantelpiece..."that absolutely paralysed him." "That is
I drill with the volunteers twice a week, and lend a hand at the farms.
"I do not say that.
There was little more evidence.
It is an L., depend upon it!"
Had that piquant gipsy face been at the bottom of the crime, or was it the baser mainspring of money?
The well-known glib phraseology passed rapidly through my mind in the interval before Poirot opened the proceedings.
In the room below, John and Mary were together once more, while Alfred Inglethorp and Miss Howard were in custody.
"I sent for you, Annie, because I thought you might be able to tell me something about the letters Mrs. Inglethorp wrote last night.
and gently taking the photographs from me locked them up again. "I suppose,"
You will remember my saying that it was wise to beware of people who were not telling you the truth."
I don't say she wasn't surrounded by sharks...she was.
This was not quite what I had intended.
"Some one stepped on it."
"What is the matter with Monsieur Poirot?
The famous bazaar had taken place on Saturday, and an entertainment, in connection with the same charity, at which Mrs. Inglethorp was to recite a War poem, was to be held that night.
With a great thump on the table, Poirot demolished his carefully built up edifice.
Lawrence followed him, and Mrs. Cavendish sat down by us.
I have drawn my own deductions, which I believe to be correct, but I will not speak of them at present."
"You never told me," I said reproachfully.
"It's jolly difficult to know how to treat him."
I should like to examine them."
"You will understand me when I say that it was a deadly life for a girl brought up as I had been.
So Dr.Bauerstein was here on Tuesday night...the night of the murder.
"There were four letters, sir.
"Throughout the case, there have been evidences that the tragedy was intended to take place on Monday evening.
Was this the monstrous possibility that Evelyn had tried not to believe?
"So now it can't be done until tomorrow," finished Cynthia.
I was moving off towards the house again when he suddenly called me back.
For the moment, he sought refuge in retreat, and left the room precipitately.
"I entered Mrs. Inglethorp's room.
"I cannot say...but it is suggestive."
The wind through the trees made a mournful noise, like some great giant sighing.
I had always fancied that his manner to Cynthia was rather constrained, and that she on her side was inclined to be shy of him.
"It might be a 'she,'" I suggested.
But, to my great surprise, Poirot nodded gravely.
One, two, three, four, five...but where, then, is the cup of Mr.
Dorcas was standing in the boudoir, her hands folded in front of her, and her grey hair rose in stiff waves under her white cap.
I asked, in lively curiosity, as Dorcas left the room.
I will not go into the details of the police court proceedings, as it involves many tiresome repetitions.
"And Mr. Inglethorp was anxious to have no scandal revived just at present.
You always told me that.
"When I went to draw the curtains, as a rule, sir."
of the most serious. For the
Like a beast of prey, Heavywether fell upon him: "How do you know?"
not quite know what to say.
hurried to the window. 1
"You deny absolutely having purchased strychnine from Albert Mace on Monday last?"
Did I not, on the contrary, tell you that he would almost certainly be acquitted?"
We are still hoping that there will turn out to be no need for investigation of any kind."
And he snapped his fingers expressively.
He had married two years ago, and had taken his wife to live at Styles, though I entertained a shrewd suspicion that he would have preferred his mother to increase his allowance, which would have enabled him to have a home of his own.
"I think that I have more diplomacy than you give me credit for."
For a moment, I thought she wavered.
I hoped and prayed it would not occur to John also.
"John may live here, but I shall not."
I didn't exactly mean to listen, but...well, there it is.
Mrs. Cavendish, startled, drops her candle, scattering the grease on the carpet.
"Because the box was empty.
Mary's voice came, cool and liquid: "Have you any right to criticize my actions?"
In the general relief at Inglethorp's approaching departure, we had the most genial breakfast we had experienced since the tragedy.
You stood by the mantel-piece, twiddling the things on it in your usual fashion, and your hand shook like a leaf!
"Pardon me, mon ami, but you did not understand it in the least.
Mrs. Cavendish was coming down the stairs.
"Where did you eventually discover it?"
"On the top of...of...a wardrobe."
"Well, he is arrested for the murder of Mrs. Inglethorp......"
Now, he will be doubly careful.
Now I understood that unfinished sentence of hers: "Emily herself......" And in my heart I agreed with her.
"Not last night, sir, I know she didn't."
By placing...one card...on another...with mathematical...precision!"
You have access to the facts.
There was, undoubtedly, a tie of passion between them long before he came to Styles.
There is a woman with a head and a heart too, Hastings.
"That is Detective Inspector James Japp of Scotland Yard...Jimmy Japp.
Have you any reason to believe that your mistress was likely to take a sleeping powder last night?"
I don't hold with foreigners as a rule, but from what the newspapers say I make out as how these brave Belges isn't the ordinary run of foreigners, and certainly he's a most polite spoken gentleman."
Let me just be quiet for a minute or two.
These preliminaries completed, the Coroner proceeded to business.
"Yes, she is of those women who show at their best in adversity.
I was pleased with the compliment.
One must never permit confusion.
With a sigh, Cynthia flung herself down, and tossed off her hat.
She raised her hand and adjusted the ruffle of lace at her neck, turning her head a little as she did so.
"You've got the keys still, haven't you, Poirot?"
We had vainly tried to trace the fourth letter, which Mrs. Inglethorp had written on the evening preceding her death.
"Then, between 7.15 and 8 o'clock, the cocoa was standing on the table in the left wing?"
This statement might, or might not, be true, but it did not seem to me to improve matters much for Inglethorp.
"On an occasion when I was enraged, without doubt," observed Poirot, with great placidity.
"Tell me...you're drawn to something?
"I have numbered them, 1 2 3.
Come along, breakfast's not cleared away yet, and they'll make you some fresh tea."
We Belgians will always remember her with gratitude."
All the doors had been bolted on the inside.
I have need of reflection.
An audible creaking proclaimed the approach of Annie, so I had no time to reply.
I can produce no less than five witnesses to swear to having seen them together, either at six or just after and, as you may know, the Abbey Farm, Mrs. Raikes's home, is at least two and a half miles distant from the village.
What had actually occurred was this.
A real sight she looked.
Yet this quaint dandyfied little man who, I was sorry to see, now limped badly, had been in his time one of the most celebrated members of the Belgian police.
It was what you said about her evidence at the inquest that set me off."
I drew aside and apologised, when suddenly, with a loud exclamation, he clasped me in his arms and kissed me warmly.
"It would have been very risky."
"Exactly a week after the tragedy?"
As we neared the house, John came out and met us.
But no one would dream of suspecting Bauerstein, or think of taking another sample...except Poirot," I added, with belated recognition.
No, old fellow, I don't think that will wash." But I had remembered something else.
We had a good yarn about old times, and it ended in his inviting me down to Styles to spend my leave there.
We walked up to the great door of Styles, and at once the knowledge came to us that something was wrong.
The quarrel did take place earlier in the afternoon, about four o'clock, as she said."
The following is a facsimile: STYLES COURT ESSEX hand written note: July 17th My dear Evelyn, Can we not bury the hachet?
One of my best hats once...but that is not to the point."
She has believed that the sleeping draught she administered was perfectly harmless, but there is no doubt that for one terrible moment she must have feared that Mrs. Inglethorp's death lay at her door.
My thoughts of mankind were kindly and charitable.
Then there's the Duchess...about the school fete."
"Oh, Sherlock Holmes by all means.
"But that has already been tested!"
And unless I can find that missing link..." He shook his head gravely.
In accordance with their prearranged plan, she never spoke to Alfred Inglethorp.
Hastings, do you not see?
"You had a discussion with your wife on Tuesday afternoon?"
"Dr. Bauerstein's arrest, of course," I answered impatiently.
"I do not know," said Poirot.
He put his lips to my ear.
I was a little annoyed.
"Oh, no, sir...of sir...of course not.
"No, it is very momentous."
Her face was heavily flushed, and she yawned repeatedly.
"Will you tell us to whom you sold it?"
Poirot switched off on another tack.
I am disappointed in Japp.
Afterwards you shall question as much as you please."
It must, in fact, have been distinctly annoying to the pair of schemers."
"Since they have been left, Dorcas, leave them a little longer, I pray you.
Already he was almost restored to his normal self.
"What on earth does he mean?"
"With my poor Emily not yet buried, can you wonder I was anxious that no more lying rumours should be started."
"I've just five minutes to catch the post."
But where did you find it?
Who told you that, my friend?"
"Try going through Mr. Inglethorp's room, sir," cried Dorcas.
Here is a man, let us say, who sets out to poison his wife.
"But that had already been done by Dr. Bauerstein," said Lawrence quickly.
More'n once too.Friend of yours, is he?
But I could not look at it in Poirot's philosophical way.
"What has happened to your extraordinary little friend, Mr. Hastings?
It's their business, not mine.
"You will understand, Wells," he added, "that this is all strictly private.
And very funny it is sometimes, sir.
"Still, as far as you are concerned, the door might equally well have been locked?"
"Oh, yes, mon ami, I would do what I say."
The cry of surprise was universal.
A lot depends on being on the spot first thing, and that's where Mr. Poirot's had the start of us.
Poirot might have excellent reasons for his belief in Inglethorp's innocence, but a man of the type of Summerhaye would require tangible proofs, and these I doubted if Poirot could supply.
I looked up at him sharply.
Can't you give me a little more to go on?"
It is probable that Mrs. Inglethorp returned earlier than he expected.
"She was given to changing her mind as to her testamentary dispositions, now benefiting one, now another member of her family."
"But we were speaking of the arrest of Dr.
and suddenly there swept across her face a strange expression, old as the hills, yet with something eternally young about it. So might
He was building card houses, when suddenly he said he had an idea, and rushed off as you saw."
There was a moment's stupefied silence.
"Your memory must be unusually short!"
That is all I want to know.
"That is absurd, Mr. Inglethorp," said the Coroner sharply.
"Yes," he continued, staring at me thoughtfully, "you will be invaluable."
I looked at my watch.
The contents of that will we shall never know.
If the paper is found on him, it is certain doom.
The '1' was written in before the '7' to turn it into the '17th'."
While suspicion was to be directed against him, she would be making quiet preparations for a very different denouement.
"Do you really think so?"
Caught in the act, and somewhat flurried he hastily shuts and locks his desk.
"Then you consider that we may dismiss the tonic as not being in any way instrumental in causing her death?"
Did not Monsieur Lawrence make the sour face every time Mademoiselle Cynthia spoke and laughed with his brother?
I came across a man in Belgium once, a very famous detective, and he quite inflamed me.
And, with a final uncontrollable burst of merriment, she vanished through the trees.
Too fine a day to be cooped up in the house."
"Mon ami, do you remember the two points I laid stress upon?
John looked puzzled, not quite understanding the portent of this cryptic saying.
Mr. Wells cleared his throat and remarked drily: "Are you so sure it is a coincidence, Cavendish?"
The Coroner called Albert Mace, chemist's assistant.
She could not have committed the crime single-handed, but the reasons against that did not debar her from being an accomplice.
A fresh piece of evidence discovered by the detectives since the police court proceedings was a long, almost new piece of blotting-paper.
And, before I could answer, he had dashed out into the street."I
And all you can do is to murmur silly things about 'heart seizure' and 'inquest on Friday.'
"Mr. Mace, have you lately sold strychnine to any unauthorized person?"
She told no one of its provisions.
"There," said Poirot, looking after her, "goes a very valuable ally.
"It was to discover that letter, then, that her husband forced the lock of the despatch-case?"
At the police court proceedings, we shall hear the case for the prosecution, but in all probability his solicitors will advise him to reserve his defence.
Should I announce the arrest openly at Styles, or not?
"Certainly not," said Mrs. Inglethorp sharply.
"There are two witnesses who will swear to having heard your disagreement with Mrs.
Lawrence remained behind, but after a few moments Cynthia called to him over her shoulder to come and join us.
"Really, I can't tell you.
And, as she spoke, I had a sudden vision of broad spaces, virgin tracts of forests, untrodden lands...and a realization of what freedom would mean to such a nature as Mary Cavendish.
In a few minutes he was back again.
A groan burst from Poirot.
"Breakfast is ready," said John Cavendish, coming in from the hall.
If it had been Inglethorp who was carrying on an intrigue with Mrs. Raikes, his silence was perfectly comprehensible.
In a few moments, they emerged, and Poirot at once stepped forward, and accosted the shorter of the two.
"You are an excellent advocate, I have no doubt, Mr. Hastings, but in this case your talents are quite thrown away.
"Who told you that, mon ami?"
He would now call the prisoner.
This proceeding of Poirot's, in respect of the cocoa, puzzled me intensely.
"I have brought him back to you."
The eyes that met mine were sad, but not reproachful; that she had been crying bitterly, I could tell by the redness of her eyelids, but her manner was unchanged from its old gruffness.
"Come in," said Cynthia, in a sharp professional tone.
"A little minute," cried Poirot from the window.
"Did you not suspect him at all?"
But in the case of Alfred Inglethorp, all that is changed.
Then, turning rapidly, he rejoined the two detectives.
"In all this, you see, I think of that poor Mrs. Inglethorp who is dead.
He was waiting for the Scotland Yard men.
"Yes, it's a fine property.
Mrs. Cavendish's behaviour could only be explained that way."
Well, how does he set about it?
The dead woman had not the gift of commanding love.
I hurried off, and got her a good strong cup of tea, and she thanked me, and said she'd feel better when she'd drunk it.
One of my first actions was to ring up the hospital where she was working."
"Yes, yes, too conclusive," continued Poirot, almost to himself.
Criminal discovered in last chapter.
In the dim light, and suffering as she was, my poor wife mistook him for me."
"You did not hear the table fall?"
"That he was not in the house last night."
The countenances of Cynthia and Nibs were suddenly petrified into a stern and forbidding expression.
He was now arranging his moustache with exquisite care.
"Miss Howard had always seemed to me so essentially honest...almost uncomfortably so."
Our efforts having been in vain, we had abandoned the matter, hoping that it might turn up of itself one day.
"I believe she has been poisoned!
Poirot turned to face us.
She beamed fondly on him, as he substituted another with every demonstration of the tenderest care.
He issued a few short sharp orders to the servants.
I was a little startled.
"That difficulty will not exist long," pronounced Poirot quietly.
Have you not realized that she is an unusually jealous woman?
I am referring to a little bottle of Hydro-chloride Hydro-chloride of Strychnine."
The lawyer went straight to the desk, and John followed him.
"I know Dr. Bauerstein had it tested," replied Poirot quietly.
He can come up here if he wants to see us."
No doubt it has struck you too."
For him to take that risk, it must have been something of great importance."
I was trying to decide whether or not I would clear John Cavendish at once.
If Bauerstein's the murderer, nothing could be simpler than for him to substitute some ordinary cocoa for his sample, and send that to be tested.
But such things have been.
The next morning dawned bright and sunny, and I was full of the anticipation of a delightful visit.
never have left that case here. I should
want to ask is this: the door leading into Mrs. Inglethorp's room from that of Mademoiselle Cynthia, it was bolted, you say?" "Certainly it
I was out in the evening.
"My dear Poirot, I am sure you are capable of thinking of seventy!
"There must be no hushing up."
course......" The young man hesitated, and then his agitation was too much for him.
Her volubility, which I remembered of old, had lost nothing in the intervening years, and she poured out a steady flood of conversation, mainly on the subject of the forthcoming bazaar which she was organizing and which was to take place shortly.
Poirot smiled kindly on me.
"Yes, sir, Mr. Inglethorp did so."
I will therefore briefly set down the circumstances which led to my being connected with the affair.
"I'm sure I shall be only too delighted to make myself useful," I responded.
"How do you make that out, Mr.
I sprang out of bed; and, pulling on a dressing-gown, followed Lawrence along the passage and the gallery to the right wing of the house.
Having no near relations or friends, I was trying to make up my mind what to do, when I ran across John Cavendish.
Had Mrs. Inglethorp, then, made several former wills?"
He drew from his pocket the key that he had found in the lock of the despatch-case upstairs.
I dropped my voice still lower.
Oh, I know what I'm talking about.
You have a right to your own opinion, just as I have to mine."
The truth is, I've got a message for you...from Poirot."
The Inglethorps did not appear.
I believe there was some tragedy connected with her death...she took an overdose of some sleeping draught by mistake.
Did he know that we suspected him, I wondered.
But he sees clearly that everything must be risked for the sake of that damning piece of evidence.
"Where was the letter written from?"
It confirms a surmise of mine.
What on earth could Poirot be doing in London!
"It can neither be explained nor ignored."
After the walk across the open park, it was pleasant to saunter lazily through the cool glades.
"My friend," he broke out at last, "I have a little idea, a very strange, and probably utterly impossible idea.
"What have I always told you?
"Do you mean that the murderer introduced the strychnine into her tonic?"
Who on earth but Poirot would have thought of a trial for murder as a restorer of conjugal happiness!
A softer expression came over her face, then suddenly she turned almost fiercely away.
He was really treating us in the most cavalier fashion.
"But you have just said it was a whole week since the crime.
But it will bring you no kudos...the kudos...the case against him will be dismissed at once!
I have the head of a sieve.
"Very well...but it's all extremely mysterious."
I think they would have, if it hadn't been for the Coroner...he seemed to be holding them back."
We are much obliged to you, Mr.
"What time was it when she first called you?"
Yes, surely it must be so, unless......- A new idea suggested itself to my mind.
"All these wills are very confusing.
John acquitted himself well in the witness-box.
"You have me," I protested.
I am quite sure he had no idea of what you meant."
I asked, thankful that he had gone away from the subject of how the poison could have been introduced into the cocoa.
I had nearly reached the lodge, when my attention was arrested by the running figure of a man approaching me.
She moved away a step or two, and fingered one of the flower vases.
I don't know what impelled me, but I was nettled, and I said foolishly and not in the best of taste: "Yet you seem to be invariably charming to Dr.
He placed a wooden hand in mine and said: "This is a pleasure, Mr.
"Now, Poirot," I remarked resignedly, "perhaps you will tell me what all this is about?"
We come to a little difficulty here, since Mrs. Inglethorp never drank it."
She looked very tired and ill, I thought.
quite en regle," continued Poirot. "Strangely enough,
"Of course, Miss Howard," I said, "I'll do everything I can, but I'm sure you're excited and overwrought."
A lady in a stout tweed skirt, who was bending over a flower bed, straightened herself at our approach.
She shook her head, and Poirot shook his also.
"But, if that was the case, why does he not say where he was at six o'clock on Monday evening?"
"My word," he cried, "you're the goods!
At that moment, we heard footsteps outside, and Dr. Wilkins, Mrs. Inglethorp's own doctor, a portly, fussy little man, came bustling in.
She wants Evie to stay on, is begging her to, but she doesn't want me, and...and...I don't know what to do."
"What would you really choose as a profession, if you could just consult your inclination?"
His words gave me an unpleasant shock.
"Then why did you ask?"
"He might have stowed them there in a hurry."
"Perhaps, though, you have a warrant for his arrest in your pocket now," suggested Poirot.
I can give evidence that will demolish one contention of the prosecution."
'To see a young lady's dispensary,' he said."
There is, of course, something discreditable behind his silence.
"Oh, dear, sir," cried Dorcas, wringing her hands, "what ever shall we do?"
It is the key to the whole riddle!"
"Messieurs, mesdames, as you all know, I was called in by Monsieur John Cavendish to investigate this case.
"Well," she said quietly, "whether it is your business or not, I will tell you that we are not happy."
He knew only too well how useless her gallant defiance was, since it was not the object of the defence to deny this point.
I said nothing, and after a moment, she went on: "Don't misunderstand me.
Poirot followed me down the narrow stairs.
"That, of course, is always possible," replied the doctor.
But since then I've remembered what the young gentlemen, John and Lawrence were still the 'young gentlemen' to Dorcas, call the 'dressing-up box.'
Mrs. Cavendish is in her mother-in-law's mother-in-law's room.
Is this the key that was lost?"
The case is not clear yet...no.
I marvelled at Poirot's calm.
It had never been opened."
And this is how you repay me!
As her eyes fell on me, a sudden pang of guilt shot through me.
"That I don't see," I confessed, "but I'll tell you this: Poirot thinks so."
"Because she cares for some one else, mon ami."
some Egyptian sphinx have smiled. She freed
He pointed out to me the little house inhabited by him and his fellow Belgians, and I promised to go and see him at an early date.
I shall keep my eye on our clever Dr.
"I can tell you, Hastings, it's making life jolly difficult for us.
It was obviously locked or bolted on the inside.
A final convulsion lifted her from the bed, until she appeared to rest upon her head and her heels, with her body arched in an extraordinary manner.
He handed the two keys which Dr. Bauerstein had given him to me.
My wife works regularly 'on the land'.
He gave an exclamation of surprise at seeing me.
Mrs. Inglethorp replied that this was an excellent idea, but as she had several letters to write she would drop us there, and we could come back with Cynthia in the pony-trap.
"Well, we've only his word for that.
My brother, I am convinced, had no more to do with the crime than I have."
"Do as I ask you.
I steady my nerves, that is all.
I have only just heard."
Now suppose anyone wished to pass himself off as John or Lawrence Cavendish.
We waited in a tense silence.
"On the contrary, John is very fond of you."
"Poirot," I cried, "I congratulate you!
Then we can lock up and go."
The village of Styles St. Mary was situated about two miles from the little station, and Styles Court lay a mile the other side of it.
Thinking over the interview, it struck me as being profoundly unsatisfactory.
It was one of the longest and blackest I have ever seen.
Glaring headlines, sandwiched biographies of every member of the household, subtle innuendoes, the usual familiar tag about the police having a clue.
dirty looking old envelope with a few words scrawled across it, apparently at random. The following
From your account, there are only two people whom we can positively say did not go near the coffee...Mrs. Cavendish, and Mademoiselle Cynthia."
It is of the first importance!
Poirot held up his hand with a faint smile.
It is the official solution, Liq.
"You couldn't call it a suspicion," I murmured.
"I want to ask your advice.
"I fear it does not help us much," said the Coroner, with a sigh.
"It is just an idea of mine," explained Lawrence.
"So Mrs. Cavendish stood by the tray...and poured out.
"It's this way," he said, "so far, we've only seen the case from the outside.
Well, I will tell you.
Some time in the evening she unbolted the door leading into Mademoiselle Cynthia's room.
The convulsions were of a violence terrible to behold.
We have cleared away the manufactured clues.
He's a Polish Jew, anyway."
"Good afternoon," I said pleasantly.
"Will she be able to do so?"
The remark seemed so utterly irrelevant that I did not even take the trouble to answer it.
I utterly reject and disapprove of Sir Ernest Heavywether's insinuations against my brother.
But, like all specialists, Bauerstein's got a bee in his bonnet.
"Aren't you my friend too?"
As I was saying, her pride and jealousy have been laid aside.
That is the whole trouble.
No, she'll have started from the hospital by now."
was feigned...which I did not believe...or her unconsciousness was indeed by artificial means. "With this latter
"I don't remember," I said.
Or shall we wait until we hear from the Princess?
But I make allowances...you are upset.
The Coroner hesitated for a moment, and then said: "Mr. Inglethorp, as a mere matter of form, would you mind telling us where you were on the evening of Monday, July 16th?"
The only fly in the ointment of my peaceful days was Mrs. Cavendish's extraordinary, and, for my part, unaccountable preference for the society of Dr. Bauerstein.
Strychnine is not used for domestic purposes, as some poisons are, and there are restrictions placed on its sale."
Well, tell him to look us up tomorrow morning, will you?"
His moustache was very stiff and military.
She whispered to herself, as though she had forgotten I was there: 'These few words...and everything's changed.'
The other man is from Scotland Yard too.
Japp had taken out a handkerchief, and was gently dabbing his brow.
"We must congratulate you, is it not so?"
Had he not, in all probability, been the cause of it?
He passed on to the debris on the floor, where the table by the bed had been overturned.
All the things that one had read a hundred times, things that happen to other people, not to oneself.
put it to you that, anxious to prove an alibi, you conceived the idea of a fictitious and rather incredible appointment, and wrote this note yourself in order to bear out your statement!"
"It must be a difficult situation for you all."
"No; What do you mean?"
"My dear Evelyn," cried Mrs. Cavendish, "this can't be true!"
"He's rather upset about something," I remarked feebly.
"From the first, his behaviour has been peculiar.
There was no change of expression in the dark melancholic face.
Miss Howard shook hands with a hearty, almost painful, grip.
When I was twenty-three, I had been nearly all over the world.
The Coroner went straight to the point.
Lawrence opined that they had to make a show of doing something.
We all know this hand-writing and......"
"But you have probably heard something?
"Lots of nonsense written, though.
"Do you mean to say," I asked, slowly adapting myself to the new idea, "that Dr. Bauerstein is a spy?"
"You brought only one candle into the room?"
With an effort, Inglethorp raised his face from his hands.
Now, unless I am much mistaken, at the inquest today only one...at most, two persons were speaking the truth without reservation or subterfuge."
Here was a clue worth having.
Her heart was far from strong.
Coarse kitchen salt, it looked.
Do you see what I mean?"
I said nothing, for I saw that she had not finished.
"Do they bully you, then?"
He's a London specialist; a very clever man...one of the greatest living experts on poisons, I believe."
"Ah, I am glad she has come.
"Why, in a thousand ingenious ways," cried Poirot.
"The sun soon dried me off," he added, "but I'm afraid my appearance is very disreputable."
But I am in her black books, since I cleared Mr. Inglethorp.
If only Poirot had been accessible, I could have asked his advice.
Whatever we may think or suspect, it is better to say as little as possible for the present.
Do you think I ought to go away from here at once?"
I think the appearance of the two Scotland Yard men was rather a shock...especially to John, though of course after the verdict, he had realized that it was only a matter of time.
He went hurriedly out into the hall.
The happiness of one man and one woman is the greatest thing in all the world."
Was it to stop that denunciation that the crime had been committed?
"I understand that now; but when did you first begin to suspect Miss Howard?"
Personally, I was not sanguine.
Alas, that these harmonious moments can never endure!
"He has insomnia, I believe," I said doubtfully.
Dr. Wilkins was the spokesman for the two.
Would it not be a terrible shock to her?
"Visitors were not permitted below at that hour, so, in spite of my many apologies, Mademoiselle Cynthia's colleague had to go down and fetch it for me."
"Do you really think so?"
"Mrs. Inglethorp is out, and he sits down to write to his accomplice, who, he fears, may be in a panic at the nonsuccess of their plan.
"Mrs. Cavendish, therefore, made her plans as only a woman driven desperate through jealousy could have done.
"He did have a beard, sir," replied Dorcas, smiling.
The Coroner interrupted her in an agony of apprehension: "Thank you, Miss Howard, that is all."
"Ah, this is curious," said Poirot.
I will make a father confessor of you.
I asked, trying to appear as indifferent as I could.
All I ask you is to keep your eyes open.
The readiness with which he admitted his financial difficulties, and the disagreement with his stepmother, lent value to his denials.
A wink's as good as a nod...from you.
My mother's always been awfully good to us, I must say.
"Mon ami," he said, turning to me, "somebody stepped on that cup, grinding it to powder, and the reason they did so was either because it contained strychnine or...which is far more serious...because it did not contain strychnine!"
Inglethorp was sitting a little by himself...I think, unconsciously, every one had drawn his chair slightly away from him...and he gave a faint start as Poirot pronounced his name.
I glanced jealously at Mary Cavendish, but she seemed quite undisturbed, the delicate pallor of her cheeks did not vary.
But it is of the first importance."
"And he's a great friend of Mary's," put in Cynthia, the irrepressible.
"I will tell you why," interrupted Poirot.
You have chosen the one point that to my mind tells against him."
She must be a famous sleeper, that one!"
"Pardon me, mon ami, you were not precisely sympathique."
have produced this note very opportunely. Tell
"Did you examine one bottle in particular?"
She determined to get hold of that paper at all costs, and in this resolution chance came to her aid.
"Just carry up my despatch-case, will you, dear?
But, by the time I had reached the top of the stairs, he was out of sight.
We have nothing to go upon."
This is the third time we run up against it.
"No, but we were both angry, and, I think, said more than we meant.
"But if you believe him innocent, how do you explain his buying the strychnine?"
"Pardon me," interrupted Alfred Inglethorp, "you have been misinformed.
It may have done, but Mr. Lawrence was away from home part of June."
She was very silent, hardly opening her lips, and yet in some queer way I felt that the great strength of her personality was dominating us all.
A figure rose from one of the basket chairs, and came a few steps to meet us.
Of the intervening weeks I will say little, but my admiration and sympathy went out unfeignedly to Mary Cavendish.
Scotland Yard men in and out of the house like a jack-in-the-box!
"A hint of something foreign...different...that there has always been about you."
I must do them again.
"That, I do not know!
"After tea, I want to talk to you."
"That is a pity," said the Coroner dryly.
As though he read my thoughts, he nodded gently.
And I then told him of the cocoa sample which Poirot had taken to be analysed.
I would have preferred to work in the dark just for the present, but what you say is very just...the word of a Belgian policeman, whose day is past, is not enough!
The most alarming sounds were audible from the interior of the room.
"Poor Cynthia is quite frightened," said Mrs. Cavendish in a low clear voice.
The prosecution had been unable to produce a shred of evidence in support of their contention that it was the prisoner who ordered the black beard from Parkson's.
She 'happened to be near the door'.
I suggested a quick game of tennis before supper and, Cynthia agreeing, I ran upstairs to fetch my racquet.
You see, up to the very last minute, I thought it was Lawrence!"
Before very long we had all trooped into the drawing-room, the door of which Japp closed.
The young man departed, and as he closed the door Poirot's eyes met mine.
Miss Howard has previously made up a cock and bull story about him and Mrs. Raikes to account for his holding his tongue afterwards.
I realized that there was an emotional lack in the atmosphere.
I, Hercule Poirot, know, but I lack the last link in my chain.
There's nothing funny about a proposal."
"As I was about to proceed, Monsieur Poirot, that document is now nan and void."
He came a cropper, and the girl was left an orphan and penniless.
"You have been with your mistress many years, is it not so?"
I took a sample from each cup, and had them analysed...with no result.
This will was found destroyed in the grate of her bedroom the following morning, but evidence had come to light which showed that it had been drawn up in favour of her husband.
She kept her most important papers in a purple despatch-case, which we must look through carefully."
She leant towards me eagerly.
And no mistake, Mr. Poirot!
No one but I, Hercule Poirot, would attempt it!"
"Oh, it's you," she said.
William Earl and Manning succeeded her, and testified to witnessing a document.
He is endeavouring to make out that there is quite as much evidence against Lawrence as against John...and I am not at all sure that he will not succeed."
He fears that if he remains in the room he may have to open it again, and that Mrs. Inglethorp might catch sight of the letter before he could snatch it up.
He naturally concluded that his stepmother had had two quarrels.
But in the first place we have only her word for it, since it was she who tried that particular door and reported it fastened.
You don't really want to...and I don't either."
As a boy, though, I had often stayed at Styles, his mother's place in Essex.
Arsenic would put poor Emily out of the way just as well as strychnine.
"I fear you do not remember me, Inspector Japp."
"Plain as a pikestaff to me," said Miss Howard shortly.
Now that is a curious circumstance, my friend.
As we passed through one of the gates on our way home again, a pretty young woman of gipsy type coming in the opposite direction bowed and smiled.
"Not the least in the world."
"It is Mr. Mace, from the chemist's shop.
"I didn't go," she replied abruptly.
"Well, let us leave it.
Think what he stands to lose.
"Ah, but you see it was not in the same place yesterday as it was today.
"I see everything now," said Lawrence.
3 is a little more complicated."
Do you remember affirming that if a crime had been committed, and anyone you loved had been murdered, you felt certain that you would know by instinct who the criminal was, even if you were quite unable to prove it?"
He has lived by his wits as the saying goes.
Before I could reply, one of the other Belgians opened the door and stuck his head in.
"That is a pity," said John.
"See you, one should not ask for outside proof...no, reason should be enough.
"I don't know, I don't know......" "Come now."
He turned to the other man.
What foot-marks are we likely to find?
The fellow must be at least twenty years younger than she is!
And an ill day it was when first 'he' darkened the threshold."
Yet surely it could not be!
Very sad," murmured Dr. Wilkins.
"But what earthly interest could he have in my mother's death?"
"Yes, it was on the prisoner's wardrobe."
There's this terrible business to start with.
I always said he'd murder her in her bed, poor soul.
"No, no, Mr. Cavendish, it is too late now.
"And the door into Mr. Inglethorp's room?
She looked flushed and upset.
To that I attribute the circumstance that you have omitted one fact of paramount importance."
"Is he quite mad, Mr.
He was hardly more than five feet, four inches, but carried himself with great dignity.
"And about the lost key and the duplicate?"
"Lot of Paul Prys," grunted Miss Howard.
How agitated she had been on that fatal Tuesday evening!
Have they taken him to prison yet?"
"No, sir, not then, but I expect she did later.
I've given up trying to guess what he'll do next."
"What do you think we had better do?"
That drawer was an unlocked one, as he had pointed out, and he submitted that there was no evidence to prove that it was the prisoner who had concealed the poison there.
Her life was safe enough.
I do not think so." "I
Now, what did that tell me?
"Will you come with us, Monsieur Poirot?
"No, I can't say it did.
The mould in the beds was exactly similar to that on the floor of the boudoir, and also I learnt from you that they had been planted yesterday afternoon.
Cross-examined, they admitted that it might be the prisoner's hand-writing cleverly counterfeited.
Poirot seemed to have exhausted his questions.
Oh, thank you, sir, I'm sure."
"Do you think Mrs. Inglethorp made a will leaving all her money to Miss Howard?"
The remains of the cocoa she dare not touch.
We know the cocoa contained no strychnine.
"What has that got to do with it?"
'The labourer is worthy of his hire', you know.
"Have another cup of coffee, mademoiselle?"
I quickly handed them to him, and with skill he extracted a small piece of half charred paper.
It was our agitated young man of the pale face.
I followed his instructions, taking up my position by the baize door, and wondering what on earth lay behind the request.
Is he any good, though, really?"
"Ah, mon ami, things are going badly, badly."
There is food for thought in this, mon ami!"
He used to say that all good detective work was a mere matter of method.
"I suppose you are quite sure that the latch-key was forgotten...that he did not take it after all?"
Poirot's face did not betray a trace of whether he was disappointed or otherwise.
"Miss Cynthia has a green evening dress."
My brain was in a whirl.
I really wonder that I did not think of it myself."
The post-mortem is to take place tonight, I believe?"
Then he went across to his mother whilst I unbolted the door that gave on the corridor.
But they had drifted very far apart.
Cynthia, whose young spirits were naturally buoyant, was looking quite her pretty self again, and we all, with the exception of Lawrence, who seemed unalterably gloomy and nervous, were quietly cheerful, at the opening of a new and hopeful future.
I'd take your word, but there's others over me who'll be asking what the devil I mean by it.
I am much obliged to you for mentioning it.
Almost at once, we drifted apart.
But Poirot answered gravely: "There I differ from you."
Dorcas brought in fresh tea.
'Dorcas,' she says, 'I've had a great shock.'
"Now, my friend," said Poirot briskly, "we will go.
"And yet," I cried indignantly, "after that, you gave me two reasons why Miss Howard could not have committed the crime!"
"I am right, am I not?"
It occurred to me that he might have been making inquiries at Raikes's farm; so, finding him out when I called at Leastways Cottage on Wednesday evening, I walked over there by the fields, hoping to meet him.
How did you get it?"
"You deny having ordered a black beard from Parkson's on June 29th?"
"Not if you were drugged, mademoiselle."
Poirot shook his head energetically.
"Cynthia," called Mrs. Inglethorp, "do you think you could write a few notes for me?"
"I dropped my hat from the balcony," explained Poirot simply.
No doubt the fellow was very useful to her.
So far, all goes well.
"This is a very dreadful business, Monsieur Poirot," he said.
At that moment a well remembered voice floated through the open French window near at hand: "Then you'll write to the Princess after tea, Alfred?
He was nearly driven desperate.
"I wish we could have spared you the pain and publicity of an inquest, but of course it's quite unavoidable in the absence of a doctor's certificate."
After breakfast, I decided to go down to the village, and see if Poirot had returned yet; but, before I could start, a well-known face blocked one of the windows, and the well-known voice said: "Bon jour, mon ami!"
On the previous day, the prisoner had purchased strychnine at the village chemist's shop, wearing a disguise by means of which he hoped to throw the onus of the crime upon another man...to wit, Mrs. Inglethorp's husband, of whom he had been bitterly jealous.
The heads of the many fashionably attired women present were busily laid together, and their whispers became so loud that the judge angrily threatened to have the court cleared if there was not immediate silence.
I did not myself think very highly of Lawrence's intelligence; but I forebore to contradict Poirot, and gently took him to task for forgetting my instructions as to which were Cynthia's days off.
She had known nothing of the tragedy, until awakened by Mrs. Cavendish.
The reaction after a shock is always trying, and I think we were all suffering from it.
"Suggestive, or not," interrupted John, "we are most grateful to Monsieur Poirot for elucidating the matter.
Miss Howard made an extremely expressive grimace.
The still feebly flickering ashes in the grate, and the row of prim ornaments on the mantelpiece, were surely harmless enough.
Twice he was closeted with Mr. Wells.
We stumbled in together, Lawrence still holding his candle.
Ladies were not always very well versed in legal knowledge.
"No, sir, Monday, the 16th."
"I want to be able to count upon your help."
Poirot produced the empty box which had contained powders.
And I'm thankful he's had the tact to take himself off.
At 5 o'clock, an hour later, she uses almost the same words, but the standpoint is different.
Behind me, with a wild cry, Mary Cavendish fell heavily against me, and as I turned to catch her I met the quiet triumph in Poirot's eyes.
If he did not murder his wife, he is, nevertheless, a scoundrel, and has something of his own to conceal, quite apart from the murder."
"One might take that with a grain of salt," I remarked sceptically.
"Can you give us no help in solving it, monsieur?"
But it was absurd of John to make such a fuss about it, and to go shouting out: "I tell you I won't have it!"
Mrs. Inglethorp does not take her medicine that night.
The top of a wardrobe is an excellent place for brown paper and cardboard boxes.
Said I was foolishly proud.
Stand there...just this side of the baize door.
Did you notice the postmark?"
I endeavoured to interrupt, but Poirot swept on.
Ah, there is something there that I do not understand.
Tell me, how did those scribbled words on the envelope help you to discover that a will was made yesterday afternoon?"
I should fancy he had found her very useful," remarked Poirot.
I ask you nothing...but you will be my ally.
"Thank you, Dorcas, that is all I have to ask you."
"Oh, well, that's all right, then, and you must go to tea with Cynthia another day."
She paused a long time, and said at last: "Perhaps...because I want to be...free!"
"Not at all," I said coldly.
Then he went to the door opposite leading into Cynthia's room.
John glanced at her pleadingly, a stricken look on his face.
I've lived in the world rather longer than you have.
Poirot locked the door on the inside, and proceeded to a minute inspection of the room.
"What on earth does this mean?"
She happened to pick up the key of Mrs. Inglethorp's despatch-case, which had been lost that morning.
Decorum and good breeding naturally enjoined that our demeanour should be much as usual, yet I could not help wondering if this self-control were really a matter of great difficulty.
The bullying manner was highly efficacious with a nervous disposition.
Nobody would have known her."
"It might be T., or it might be L.," I said, after studying the thing for a minute or two.
A slight pause ensued before the lawyer went on in his soothing manner: "Any other evidence will be simply confirmatory, a mere matter of form."
"Now I have finished with this room.
We had read of such things...now we ourselves were actors in the drama.
"My dear Poirot," I said coldly, "it is not for me to dictate to you.
By tacit consent, all mention of the tragedy was barred.
When she chose, however, her face could be sphinx-like in its inscrutability.
Then she turned abruptly away.
I am charming to my friends one day, and forget all about them the next."
cried Poirot, in apparently lively astonishment.
Neatly arranged, there is nothing to offend the eye."
And she walked quietly past me out of the window, with a cool little nod of dismissal.
"I am still a little fogged as to how exactly the bromide business was done," I remarked.
But night fell, and Poirot had not returned.
He has more intelligence than would appear, this long-faced Monsieur Lawrence of yours!"
Again I didn't hear what he said, but she went on: 'Nothing that you can say will make any difference.
"Then," I said, much amused, "you think that if you were mixed up in a crime, say a murder, you'd be able to spot the murderer right off?"
"And that was just what confirmed my suspicion that it was not.
In her attitude towards Poirot, she was inclined to be suspicious, but he soon broke down her defences.
And suddenly I remembered that first conversation at tea on the day of my arrival, and the gleam in her eyes as she had said that poison was a woman's weapon.
It is a matter of precaution only."
She is of a good height, her voice is deep and manly; moreover, remember, she and Inglethorp are cousins, and there is a distinct resemblance between them, especially in their gait and bearing.
"Haven't I always told you the man is a villain?
"Couldn't your brother help you?"
"You're a cynic, Evie," said John, laughing.
We know this, because later she asked Dorcas to bring her some.
Do you still believe that Mrs. Inglethorp was poisoned by her husband?"
"I tell you it is not what you imagine.
He would have had ample time to remove them and destroy them."
Had that anything to do with it?
Apparently he is a German spy; so the gardener had told John."
Now at last, I had Poirot to myself, and could relieve my still burning curiosity.
It does not concern you in the least."
"I know what it is," she accused him, "you've been listening to the doctors.
Can't remember one special one."
The whole story is absolutely untrue.
"John," I said, "I am going to ask you something."
What do you make of her attitude?"
"Did not Mrs. Inglethorp call you again?"
The examination was over, though I doubted if the Coroner was entirely satisfied with it.
"I couldn't say exactly, sir, but it wasn't tea-time by a long way.
The quarrel which had taken place between prisoner and his stepmother was freely admitted, but both it and his financial embarrassments had been grossly exaggerated.
"When I discovered that she had told a lie at the inquest about the letter she had received from Mrs.
Now, what reasons are there against Miss Howard's having deliberately poisoned Mrs.
To make sure, she had further tried it in a sentence, thus: 'I am possessed.'
But the mater cottoned to him at once, took him on as secretary...you know how she's always running a hundred societies?"
The coffee was never drunk.
She was walking away when John sprang after her, and caught her by the arm.
With the evidence of Annie, as to the candle grease on the floor, and as to seeing the prisoner take the coffee into the boudoir, the proceedings were adjourned until the following day.
I did not quite like the tone of his voice, but at that moment a smart knock reached our ears, and looking out of the window we perceived the two detectives waiting for us below.
In a low voice, in answer to Mr. Philips' questions, he denied having ordered anything from Parkson's in June.
I read the label carefully: 'One powder to be taken at bedtime, if required.
Every fresh circumstance seems to establish it more clearly."
He was a man of very little imagination, in sharp contrast with his brother, who had, perhaps, too much.
Then I remembered that enigmatical conversation between Poirot and Evelyn Howard.
be more in this affair of Inglethorp's with Mrs. Raikes than we thought, to make him hold his tongue so persistently. What are
I could not disguise my pleasure.
Haven't I always hated him like poison?"
"Did you meet anyone on your walk?"
"As far as I can remember, she didn't eat much.
We had walked, as we talked, and now we passed through the little gate into the garden.
She waited a long time, a little frown had gathered on her forehead.
In the ensuing confusion she would have had ample opportunity to shoot the bolt across.
"Then he is very sure.
Mr. Inglethorp was in the drawing-room when I came down to supper.
I told him about the letter.
"Did you ever make up Mrs. Inglethorp's medicines?"
"The first is the state of the weather yesterday.
The person who had left the candle grease on the floor?
I asked, after a minute or two.
I determined to lose no time.
With the presence of Mr. Inglethorp, a sense of constraint and veiled hostility seemed to settle down upon the company.
Immediately after supper, Mrs. Inglethorp retired to her boudoir again.
She seemed to be looking back earnestly into those past days.
all over the village about old Mrs. Inglethorp dying so suddenly. They
Isn't he coming back today?"
"I am sure she would be delighted.
Then there were the bromide powders which she had made up, and her clever male impersonations, as Dorcas recounted them to us.
John, of course, good fellow though he is, could hardly be called a brilliant conversationalist.
Those questions I could not resolve
He passed on to the subject of the note."You
He turned to me earnestly.
Suddenly something in the bolt itself seemed to rivet his attention.
"No one will be more pleased than I shall.
The prisoner had been arrested in consequence of the discovery, in his room, by Detective Inspector Japp...a most brilliant officer...of the identical phial of strychnine which had been sold at the village chemist's to the supposed Mr. Inglethorp on the day before the murder.
He clutched Poirot by the arm, and sank his voice to a whisper: "Just tell me this, Mr. Poirot, it isn't...it isn't strychnine, is it?"
"The mater will be delighted to see you again...after all those years," he added.
You'd never have believed a pretty young lady like that could have made herself into such a ruffian.
It was a day of turmoil.
By the way, whose is the smaller desk in the corner?"
John strode on ahead and I took the opportunity of whispering to Poirot: "There will be an inquest then?"
He flung himself upon the case.
Lawrence blushed, and then smiled awkwardly.
Doubtless the writer was interrupted; but there can be no question as to his identity.
"Yes, indeed, that was nightmare enough for any man!
"Nevertheless, mon ami, it was Mrs. Inglethorp.
"Yes," I said, "Alfred Inglethorp, without doubt."
He seemed somewhat apathetic in the search, as though he expected no great results from it.
Now Inglethorp's out of the way, there's no one else; no one, I mean, except...one of us.
"I once studied to be a doctor.
I'm looking for a friend of mine whom I thought might have walked this way."
He drew forward a chair.
And, if it hadn't been for Mr. Poirot here, arrested you would have been, as sure as eggs is eggs!"
'I'm sorry for that, m'm,' I says.
I think this one is a shade less solid than the one in the passage."
"Yes, my friend," said Poirot unexpectedly, "we can.
She stood very upright, and spoke in a low, clear, and perfectly composed voice.
"Nothing more to do, Nibs?"
Much more charming than Mary, who never said things of that kind.
An instant coldness passed like a mask over her face, blotting out all expression.
She seemed to be supporting the girl, who looked utterly dazed and unlike herself.
"Look after her, Hastings, will you?
I never took the salt near it."
"It's quite a mania with him."
"Well, it is difficult to explain.
What do you mean by deceiving me as you have done?"
Voices rose near at hand, for tea was spread out under the sycamore-tree, as it had been on the day of my arrival.
Poirot was a 1 prophet.
"Every murderer is probably somebody's old friend," observed Poirot philosophically.
"N...o...I "N...o...I am sure I didn't."
"I...I only......" "Come in," I said, springing up.
The next witness was Mary Cavendish.
"Oh, look here, why not?"
"I opened my door," continued Mary, "and listened.
How should he doubt that the man in his clothes, with his beard and his glasses, was not Alfred Inglethorp?"
Poirot was an extraordinary looking little man.
Miss Howard will have engineered her quarrel, and departed from the house.
It would be for the jury to decide whether or not these damning facts constituted an overwhelming proof of the prisoner's guilt.
We all looked at each other.
"He will have evidence to give at the inquest."
We all trooped out into the corridor, leaving the two doctors alone, and I heard the key turned in the lock behind us.
Couldn't bear to think of the fellow lording it here.
"The dear fellow isn't perhaps very bright," I said thoughtfully.
cried Miss Howard wildly, flinging up her hands.
Loosening his hold of me, he mechanically straightened a pair of candlesticks, still murmuring to himself: "Yes, that alters everything...everything."
"And this is the man with whom Mrs. Cavendish has been wandering about all over the country!"
Finally he turned to the lawyer again."Mr.
There was a little stir of excitement.
The narrowness, the deadly monotony of it, almost drove me mad."
Five, we had, before the war, when it was kept as a gentleman's place should be.
The same juryman who had interrupted before here suggested that the chemist who made up the medicine might have committed an error.
But it was strange that she never heard a sound, sleeping next door; whereas Mrs. Cavendish, in the other wing of the building, distinctly heard the table fall."
"What time did you bring it up last night?"
I had almost forgotten that enigmatical message of Poirot's, but now my curiosity was aroused afresh.
"Come," he said, "now to examine the coffee-cups!"
"If that man comes into the house, I leave it!"
"I believe, Miss Howard, that it was you who found this sheet of brown paper?"
I looked cautiously round, and lowered my voice.
They are a clever pair!"
"Now I want to ask you about something else.
In the interval before the inquest, Poirot was unfailing in his activity.
"Why, Mary, what a gruesome conversation!"
"I am sorry for that," he said.
What third medium was there...a medium so suitable for disguising the taste of strychnine that it is extraordinary no one has thought of it?"
In spite of myself, my opinion of his sagacity was immeasurably heightened.
"Mr. Hastings...you are always so kind, and you know such a lot."
"That neither Dr. Wilkins nor myself could give a death certificate under the circumstances."
Mary Cavendish was standing where the staircase branched, staring down into the hall in the direction in which he had disappeared.
Its effects would be felt very soon, probably in about an hour.
"If you know of nothing to the contrary," pursued Mr. Wells, "I had thought of Friday.
After various questions on other matters, Mr. Philips asked: "In the month of June last, do you remember a parcel arriving for Mr. Lawrence Cavendish from Parkson's?"
'You'll feel better after a nice hot cup of tea, m'm.'
Ever since his boyhood, she had supported him.
Here, let one of the maids go down and wake Baily and tell him to go for Dr. Wilkins at once.
I'm certain Dr. Bauerstein suspects it."
I never thought of looking.
"You will breakfast with us, Monsieur Poirot?"
I don't know why, but she can't bear me; and he can't, either."
She was able to speak in short gasps.
What a consummate hypocrite the man was!
This bit of cross-examination cross-examination had caused great excitement in court.
Also," he added placidly, "I should not allow it!"
Mrs. Inglethorp came up to bed before I'd finished."
One was a little, sharp, dark, ferret-faced man, the other was tall and fair.
"Do not worry," said Poirot smoothly.
It struck me at this moment that Cynthia was really a very charming girl!
Several hectic days lay behind us.
Mrs. Inglethorp, however, seemed to notice nothing unusual.
No, come here and aid me in my search.
And it is possible that she had a mauvais quart d'heure in consequence!
I must say I was surprised the jury didn't bring it in Wilful Murder against him right off.
"Where did you find this?"
She paused, and seemed to reflect, still outwardly as calm as ever.
We passed through Alfred Inglethorp's room, and Poirot delayed long enough to make a brief but fairly comprehensive examination of it.
His watchful and attentive manner never varied.
There is something missing...a link in the chain that is not there.
One can only guess, but I believe my guess to be correct.
"I proceeded to reason on that assumption.
She puts the beard in the attic.
In a few minutes I was knocking at the door of Leastways Cottage.
And, for the rest of the way home, I recited to them the various exploits and triumphs of Hercule Poirot.
That is, up to now.
he said, in an unsteady voice.
"It certainly isn't a J."
"Never mind what you've got.
"No, it is astonishing until you get used to the idea, and see how it makes everything fit in.
"Mainly owing to the mater's activities."
Obviously, the prisoner would not be likely to go to that drawer?"
There were some peculiar points about that stain.
The other one, I don't remember."
The door was shut, but the mistress was speaking very sharp and clear, and I heard what she said quite plainly.
He picked up the bunch of keys from the floor, and twirling them round in his fingers finally selected one, very bright and shining, which he tried in the lock of the purple despatch-case.
"Yes, we heard that Mrs. Inglethorp wrote to you last night.
"I think, Mr. Cavendish," said Poirot gravely, "that you would do well not to buoy yourself up with any False hopes.
I had been invalided home from the Front; and, after spending some months in a rather depressing Convalescent Home, was given a month's sick leave.
Everywhere he went, I went with him.
"Poirot, is that seriously your opinion?"
But I decide an affair of great moment."
She might have burnt the new one, mistaking it for the earlier one in his favour.
I remembered that Cynthia had begun her confidences in much the same way.
She knows that she is in danger...but is ignorant of where the danger lies.
"Never tell lies," replied Miss Howard.
Shortly afterwards, he went into the Consular Service.
a crumpled envelope out of his pocket, and tossed it over to me. It was
Observe that crescent; and those diamonds...their neatness rejoices the eye.
With a deft gesture, he rearranged it.
Shorn of its medical phraseology and technicalities, it amounted to the fact that Mrs. Inglethorp had met her death as the result of strychnine poisoning.
He seemed a little confused, but recovered himself.
"Does it not strike you as unlikely that a man who had committed a crime should keep the evidence of it in an unlocked drawer for anyone to find?"
We conversed on the war, and other outside topics.
Just say that to him, and see what he says."
But you will find it all right."
"But do you think......" "I think nothing.
It is one thing to know that a man is guilty, it is quite another matter to prove him so.
At last we heard the doctors descending the stairs.
I felt I had suddenly strayed into another world.
"That is a long time, and very faithful service.
Japp was regarding Poirot with comical perplexity.
"No, it wasn't," I admitted reluctantly.
Amy Hill, shop assistant, was next called, and deposed to having sold a will form on the afternoon of the 17th to William Earl, under-gardener at Styles.
When I returned with her, however, the boudoir was empty.
Evidence as to the financial difficulties in which the prisoner had found himself at the end of July.
And, with a characteristic shrug, he dismissed whatever it was that was worrying him from his mind.
In her soft grey frock, with white ruffles at the wrists falling over her slender hands, she looked very beautiful.
"Shall I tell you why you have been so vehement against Mr. Inglethorp?
"You have my word," said Inglethorp haughtily.
"Where did you find it?"
Have you no friends of whom I should disapprove?"
There's been the most awful row!
And with these words, she walked firmly out of the room.
I asked, in lively curiosity.
He had been completely under his wife's ascendancy, so much so that, on dying, he left the place to her for her lifetime, as well as the larger part of his income; an arrangement that was distinctly unfair to his two sons.
"So beautiful, so beautiful, and yet, the poor family, plunged in sorrow, prostrated with grief."
He's got a great black beard, and wears patent leather boots in all weathers!
"It did not strike you as peculiar that a famous London doctor should bury himself in a little village like this, and should be in the habit of walking about at all hours of the night, fully dressed?"
She decides to say nothing to her husband, but sits down and writes to her solicitor, asking him to come on the morrow, and she also determines to destroy immediately the will which she has just made.
"Somebody might accept you next time.
We thronged round her, powerless to help or alleviate.
Miss Cynthia was a nigger once, and, oh, the trouble she had."
Dorcas's eyes looked as though they would pop out of her head.
"No, because Emily never could bear to put herself in the wrong.
The Coroner's face grew graver.
In a few words Dr.Bauerstein explained how he had happened to be passing the lodge gates as the car came out, and had run up to the house as fast as he could, whilst the car went on to fetch Dr. Wilkins.
And, remember, all this is in confidence."
He suggested to her repeatedly that it was 4.30, and not 4 o'clock when she had heard the voices.
No suspicion attaches to her.
But, on the following day, no sign of Poirot.
He spoke very feelingly, and I looked at him earnestly, remembering that last afternoon, when he had been deliberating whether or not to speak.
I asked sharply, for instinctively I distrusted the man.
If the others had been there, I should have done just the same."
"Go on...I am really excited."
"Oh, you," I replied hastily.
She never let people forget what she had done for them...and, that way she missed love.
I wouldn't lift a finger to...to......" She faltered.
"It makes me feel as if a goose were walking over my grave.
And, in very truth, run and leap he did, gambolling wildly down the stretch of lawn outside the long window.
"You'm from the Hall, bain't you?"
For the moment, I set aside utterly any suspicions of her.
"The Belgian detective who was employed on the case asked me to search for it."
"Denby kept me late last night.
But there's worse than that."
That letter excepted, there was absolutely nothing to connect him with the crime."
"Have you had anything to eat this morning, Evie?"
We were all silent, but I suppose I voiced the thoughts of us all when I at last broke it by saying: "Where is Mr.
She will see to it that sooner or later they are duly discovered."
"I believe," continued Lawrence, "that there have been cases where the cumulative effect of a drug, administered for some time, has ended by causing death.
I caught the momentary gleam of her tawny eyes as she raised them.
By throwing it on some one else.
Every one is...usually something absurd."
But I myself was puzzled, and as soon as I was alone with Poirot I asked him what he thought Sir Ernest was driving at.
The first witnesses for the prosecution were mostly those who had been called at the inquest, the medical evidence being again taken first.
The colossal cheek of the little man!
Call for me in passing...the last house in the village.
Then she hurriedly left the room.
"To be sure, that is odd!"
"Do you mean that you could have saved John Cavendish from being brought to trial?"
I wondered what it was that had brought that singular expression to his face.
Mr. Inglethorp's reason for not returning last night was, I believe, that he had forgotten the latch-key.
Annie racked her brains in vain.
The present contention is that Mrs. Inglethorp died of strychnine poisoning, presumably administered in her coffee."
Mrs. Inglethorp had no stamps in her desk.
He was so seldom vehement about anything.
We are quite a war household; nothing is wasted here...every scrap of waste paper, even, is saved and sent away in sacks."
We had a pleasant luncheon, and as we drove away Lawrence suggested that we should return by Tadminster, which was barely a mile out of our way, and pay a visit to Cynthia in her dispensary.
I am always watching...always hoping I shall be proved wrong."
We are now able to account for the symptoms of strychnine poisoning being so long in making their appearance.
"Yes, it is the greatest thing in the world."
Poirot was surveying me with quietly twinkling eyes.
"No," I said, "it was not plain to me!"
"Because he did not dare take the biggest risk of all...that of keeping it on his own person."
"Perhaps you don't realize that I am still in the dark."
She came in, but did not sit down.
He tried several, twisting and turning them with a practiced hand, and finally uttering an ejaculation of satisfaction.
"Yes, yes; you must be a wizard to have guessed.
"Between you and me, sir," remarked Japp, "I'd sooner have any amount of rumours than be arrested for murder.
"We were discussing the matter of wills being revoked by marriage only yesterday."
Her pride and her jealousy have..."
I recalled her as an energetic, autocratic personality, somewhat inclined to charitable and social notoriety, with a fondness for opening bazaars and playing the Lady Bountiful.
He bowed with exaggerated respect to Mary Cavendish.
This time I was received with a smile.
"No one but Hercule Poirot would have attempted such a thing!
"The convulsions were of a peculiar violence, Dr. Wilkins.
"You are too amiable, madame."
He made an extravagant gesture with his hand.
But it did not seem to me to bear upon the question of his guilt or innocence."
He declared that that satisfied him, and so...we were married."
On the other hand, Mrs. Cavendish believed that the slip of paper to which her mother-in-law clung so tenaciously was a written proof of her own husband's infidelity.
"My dear fellow," I said, "is this wise?
A fair sight it was.
Listen, I have said nothing to anybody but John.
You are perfectly correct in your assumption that her vehemence against Alfred Inglethorp is too violent to be natural; but you are quite wrong in the deduction you draw from it.
Lawrence Cavendish was carrying it.
It would be Miss Howard who would attend to anything like that."
She laid her hand on my arm, and sank her voice to a whisper.
I must make him see the gravity of his position.
"Supposing a parcel arrived addressed to Mr. Lawrence Cavendish, and afterwards it disappeared, should you remark its absence?"
Surely her face grew a little paler as she answered: "Yes."
We went into the little morning-room, and Poirot closed the door.
"How do you mean...thanks to you?"
Heavywether cared nothing for his client's anger.
Of course you realize that, now Mr. Inglethorp is out of it, the whole position is greatly changed.
Poirot, who was watching me intently, gave a sigh.
Ah, you gentlemen from the Hall...you'n a pretty lot!"
He needn't have done so.
"You are sure of that?"
"On Tuesday, the 17th July, you went, I believe, with another guest, to visit the dispensary at the Red Cross Hospital in Tadminster?"
Lawrence turned to his brother.
He rose and strolled to the window.
I looked at Poirot in silent amazement.
I can't help feeling sometimes it must have been an accident.
Quickly, he forces the lock with a penknife, and turns over the papers until he finds what he is looking for.
In a few brief words, I explained the tragedy that had occurred, and that I wanted his help.
"What happened next is mere guess work on my part, but I should say that Mrs. Inglethorp picked up the broken cup and placed it on the table by the bed.
interposed Poirot, speaking for the first time since we had entered the room.
I felt that I was right in my opinion that Dorcas was the person most affected by the personal side of the tragedy.
She didn't understand...was very offended sometimes.
Because she wished to destroy something, and could think of no other way.
I privately thought that Poirot was rather too much given to these fantastic ideas.
"For a long time they were a stumbling-block to me until I remembered a very significant fact: that she and Alfred Inglethorp were cousins.
"No, sir, there was a bit of blotting paper over that part."
And then...he makes his slip.
Then she said: "Mrs. Cavendish does.
"Still, it is unimportant, and need not be taken into account."
With dark eyes and eyelashes she would have been a beauty.
He once or twice observed to me that he thought Dorcas must have made an error in fixing the time of the quarrel.
How many gardeners are employed here, by the way?"
They've arrested him...they've arrested Mr.
"It's perfectly sweet of you," she said, "but you know you don't want to!"
But if you look at the date at the top of the letter you will notice that 'July 17th' is quite different in this respect.
'You have lied to me, and deceived me,' she said.
"You think it is true?"
"So long as gossip busied itself in coupling their names together, any other vagaries of the doctor's passed unobserved."
It was certainly utterly dissimilar.
"But, if you'll excuse me, sir, why couldn't you say all this at the inquest?"
The French window swung open a little wider, and a handsome white-haired old lady, with a somewhat masterful cast of features, stepped out of it on to the lawn.
"When I found that the more efforts I made to clear him, the more efforts he made to get himself arrested.
And she is on the side of Justice!
"But it was only for a moment."
Mary took a house in Kensington, Poirot being included in the family party.
She always had a rough tongue, but there is no stauncher friend in England than Evelyn Howard."
I looked with some curiosity at 'Alfred darling'.
Poirot answered them categorically...almost categorically...almost mechanically.
But the door was locked?"
There are two facts of significance."
There was a pause, and then Dr. Bauerstein drew two keys from his pocket, and handed them to John.
Then I found that I'd forgotten the latch-key after all.
I asked, as carelessly as I could.
I had expected that answer.
Of all the household, he alone would be likely to recognize the symptoms of strychnine poisoning, and yet we find him the only member of the family to uphold strenuously the theory of death from natural causes.
A pretty mare's nest arresting him would have been."
I do hope she's found him out at last!"
Under the circumstances, we were naturally not a cheerful party.
"Was Dr. Bauerstein here on Tuesday evening?
Anyway, I leant forward, and taking her little hand, I said awkwardly: "Marry me, Cynthia."
I rather resented his not taking me into his confidence, the more so as I could not in the least guess what he was driving at.
"It is, as you see, highly magnified.
Poirot did not answer me for a moment, but at last he said: "I did not deceive you, mon ami.
"Of course an actor......" But Poirot cut me short ruthlessly.
But I can honestly say it was not this fact which weighed with me.
I am inclined to think that Miss Howard was the master mind in that affair.
"I told him Wednesday was the one day she wasn't there!
My evening was utterly and entirely spoilt by the presence of Dr. Bauerstein.
"I can't help feeling," I continued blunderingly; "that we've rather left her out of the possible suspects, simply on the strength of her having been away from the place.
Poirot smiled and answered: "A scribbled over old envelope, and a freshly planted bed of begonias."
"Not unless our friend Japp has taken leave of his senses," replied Poirot placidly.
He did not buy it."
I have kept you and clothed you and fed you!
Because, in no other way can you account for the fact that, on one of the hottest days of the year, Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire to be lighted in her room."
Why does Miss Howard suppress the letter written on the 17th, and produce this faked one instead?
How did he intend to explain his absence?
Still, the Johnnies will wait now."
But you would not trust me."
Dorcas came running down and woke my husband, and we all went to my mother-in-law's mother-in-law's room, but it was locked......" The Coroner interrupted her.
And then I shouldn't be so damned hard up as I am now."
"Yes," he said, nodding gravely.
All transactions were entered in their books.
And John lifted the lid as he spoke.
"I'm much obliged to you.
That's where the Yard's at a disadvantage in a case of this kind, where the murder's only out, so to speak, after the inquest.
It is because you are trying to drown and stifle your instinct, which tells you another name......"
"Will you repeat to us what you overheard of the quarrel?"
"Wait, my friend, I will let you in, and you shall recount to me the affair whilst I dress."
Suddenly, there was a tap at the door, and Cynthia peeped in.
The whole thing's damned awkward!
Lawrence stared at me in quite unaffected astonishment.
It was nonsense to pretend that he was afraid of the scandal, as no possible scandal could attach to him.
said Summerhaye, opening his lips for the first time.
Poirot unfolded the sheet of paper eagerly, and uttered an exclamation of satisfaction.
Now then, we'll have a try at the door.
Don't believe in it myself."
There was no strychnine present."
After some reflecting, I decided to take John into my confidence, and leave him to make the matter public or not, as he thought fit.
"I will some day, if you ask me," she promised him, smiling.
I'd feel it in my fingertips if he came near me."
"Mr. Wells told me as we were going upstairs."
"That is exactly what I thought.
Sort of thing he would say.
And I'm sure it looked wonderfully natural at a distance.
You realize, of course, what was at the back of that?"
"Yes, sir, now you mention it, it did; though I don't know how you came to hear of it.
I'd love him to see it.
Poirot shook his forefinger so fiercely at me that I quailed before it.
I understand," continued the Coroner deliberately, "that you were sitting reading on the bench just outside the long window of the boudoir.
"In other words, it was winter underclothing.
"And yet you will pay no attention to my instinct against Alfred Inglethorp."
"I do not think he believes or cares anything!
He looked about forty, very dark with a melancholy clean-shaven face.
If Mr. Inglethorp did take it, he has had ample time to replace it by now."
But if, on the other hand, it was John, the whole thing was explained quite naturally."
"I'm inclined to give Hastings a free hand, though I should prefer to wait a bit.
Japp, who was the least surprised of any of us, was the first to speak.
Perhaps he thought it safer in the long run.
He radiated an absurd complacency.
At that point, Poirot nudged me gently, indicating two men who were sitting together near the door.
I was considerably taken aback, and murmured something about it's not being my business to think anything of the sort.
We followed him in, and he shut the door after us.
She thought that Mrs. Inglethorp was shielding her stepson.
But, pausing a moment, he added: "Still, it does not surprise me.
"Why, she was devoted to her!"
The entertainment was a great success, Mrs. Inglethorp's recitation receiving tremendous applause.
"Well," I said wearily, "I suppose some one must have stepped on it."
I've got it all out of Dorcas."
"No, before the war I was in Lloyd's."
I was rather disconcerted by this, remembering how I had busily passed on to John what I believed to be Poirot's views concerning Bauerstein.
She looked excited and determined, and slightly on the defensive.
"I did not recognize them."
"I am here, my friend."
To tell the truth, an idea, wild and extravagant in itself, had once or twice that morning flashed through my brain.
"And I...who have both the keys in my pocket!"
"No, I myself took a sample of the cocoa remaining in the saucepan and had it analysed.
"Why, do the gentlemen from the Hall come here often?"
They are a very astute and unscrupulous pair.
The inquest was held on Friday at the Stylites Arms in the village.
Do you recall its general appearance?"
Every one was assembled in the dining-room.
"They would not be shaken because twelve stupid men had happened to make a mistake!
Sir Ernest Heavywether's speech in opening the case for the defence was not a long one, but it was backed by the full force of his emphatic manner.
He went straight to the pantry, where we found Dorcas busily polishing her silver.
It is but the extremely beautiful nature that you have, which made me pause."
Also, is it not possible that she may have taken an overdose of her medicine by accident?"
You were much attached to her, were you not?"
That strengthens the conviction that the person in question was her husband.
"We must act at once.
In a few moments he had unbarred the door, and I followed him up to his room.
Nevertheless, in view of the world-wide notoriety which attended it, I have been asked, both by my friend Poirot and the family themselves, to write an account of the whole story.
In front of us were "the detectives in charge of the case."
He was silent for a minute or two as we walked along, but finally he said: "I do not mind telling you...though, as you know, it is not my habit to explain until the end is reached.
"You did not understand that he believed Mademoiselle Cynthia guilty of the crime?"
Dorcas, quite flurried by the noise, came hurrying out of the pantry.
idea in my mind, I examined all the coffee-cups most carefully, remembering that it was Mrs. Cavendish who had brought Mademoiselle Cynthia her coffee the night before.
We went slowly upstairs again.
Poirot's smile became rather enigmatical.
Did you abstract any of the contents of the bottle?"
"I...I suppose I must have taken up the bottle."
The little man was transformed.
"Yes, sir, me and Willum."
She hides the strychnine and glasses in John's room.
"Miss Howard, I will ask you one question.
"Can you tell me what they were?
In answer to the Coroner's questions, he explained that he was a qualified pharmacist, but had only recently come to this particular shop, as the assistant formerly there had just been called up for the army.
Of course one has to treat him as usual...but, hang it all, one's gorge does rise at sitting down to eat with a possible murderer!"
No one can possibly bring home the crime to me.
Sir Ernest Heavywether, the famous K. C., had been engaged to defend him.
"But I still can't understand why Inglethorp was such a fool as to leave it there when he had plenty of opportunity to destroy it."
I hardly heard what Poirot replied.
Yet the strychnine must have been administered between seven and nine o'clock that evening.
Sir Ernest bowed, and having shot his arrow proceeded.
"It can be done," he said at last.
"And I am pleased with you.
Poirot stopped for a moment, and gazed sorrowfully over the beautiful expanse of park, still glittering with morning dew.
We are going through my mother's papers.
"Well, my friend, as I say, my views as to Mr. Inglethorp's guilt were very much shaken.
It was already there...in the mixture.
We had a very cheery tea, and assisted Cynthia to wash up afterwards.
Those of importance we will put on one side; those of no importance, pouf!"...he
"My mother kept most of her important papers in this despatch-case, I believe," he said.
I said, rather taken aback.
Something may arise at the autopsy to explain it.
In fact, on June 29th, he had been staying away, in Wales.
The clumping of hobnailed boots on the gravel outside proclaimed the approach of Manning.
That Mrs. Inglethorp may have inadvertently taken an overdose?"
"In the wash-stand drawer in Mrs. Inglethorp's bedroom.
I even forgave Poirot for his absurd secrecy.
The truth of the matter was that it was Lawrence who had murdered Alfred Inglethorp with a croquet mallet.
"About four, I should say, sir."
"That's better," said Miss Howard more enthusiastically.
She was very generous, but she always wanted a return.
I will merely state baldly that John Cavendish reserved his defence, and was duly committed for trial.
downstairs excited you. I can
Privately, I hoped it might remain so, for what happiness could there be for Mary, if John were not acquitted?
Without a word, she turned and went swiftly up the stairs, whilst I stood like an idiot gaping after her.
"Was the pile of underclothes under which the things were hidden heavy or light?"
He is not altogether a fool.
"So that is the explanation of the blank label on the box," I remarked.
For one thing, a country jury is not anxious to take responsibility upon itself, and Mr. Inglethorp stands practically in the position of local squire.
"My dear Evie, do be careful.
It concealed a very opposite emotion.
"But why should he shield her?"
But it is too late!
The bad moment has passed.
"What is a great discovery?"
Or perhaps Mrs. Inglethorp herself dropped her candle."
"A tinge of Jewish blood is not a bad thing.
She paused a minute, and added in a different tone: "And then I met John Cavendish."
Now, to turn to another feature, what do you make of the scrap of conversation you overheard between Mrs. Cavendish and her mother-in-law?"
A really perfect bit of old china...it's pure delight to handle it, or even to look at it."
"It can't last for ever."
I said bolted, meaning that it was fastened, and I could not open it, but I believe all the doors were found bolted on the inside."
I fixed my mind on my book."
I studied the proofs attentively.
Luckily for Mr. Inglethorp, he had been able to produce an unimpeachable alibi.
The motor met me just outside the lodge gates, and I hurried there as fast as I could."
"Mr. Wells to see you, sir," she said to John.
"I am not keeping back facts.
Privately I thought it lucky that he had associated with him some one of a more receptive type of mind.
Always did far too much...far too much...against my advice.
It brings out all that is sweetest and truest in them.
She would never forgive me if I let Alfred Inglethorp, her husband, be arrested now...when a word from me could save him!"
"Why, the fact that Bauerstein demanded a post-mortem.
"In a moment, he has torn the letter into long thin strips, and rolling them up into spills he thrusts them hurriedly in amongst the other spills in the vase on the mantle-piece."
The strychnine had been found in a drawer in the prisoner's room.
"I will ask you nothing.
The jury looked up, interested.
reflected a moment, then he said: "I believe, Mr. Inglethorp, that you yourself poured out the coffee, and took it to your wife that evening?"
There was the murmur of a man's voice, and then Mrs. Inglethorp's rose in reply: "Yes, certainly.
I never noticed it when I took the tray up, but when I came to take it into the mistress's room I saw it at once, and I suppose I ought to have taken it down again, and asked Cook to make some fresh.
I followed her, afraid that she was going to faint.
This having come to his stepmother's ears, she taxed him with it on the afternoon before her death, and a quarrel ensued, part of which was overheard.
No wonder Miss Howard had suggested "hushing it up."
Do not think that you are betraying your mistress's secrets.
Yet Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire!
There's a good time coming once the old woman is dead and out of the way.
"John doesn't think so," I remarked.
"Dr. Bauerstein arrested for the murder of Mrs.
She picks it up, and retreats quickly to Mademoiselle Cynthia's room, closing the door behind her.
The Coroner handed him the register in which his signature was inscribed.
"Did you notice any candle grease on the floor when you did the room yesterday?"
Don't mind if they've only sunk in a bit.
Mary Cavendish was saying in the voice of a woman desperately controlling herself: "Then you won't show it to me?"
You see, Aunt Emily always told me I should be provided for.
What is the first you heard of it?"
To which Mary Cavendish replied, with a rising bitterness: "Of course, I might have known you would shield him."
He's such a dear little man!
That is a terrible blow to him, for it means that his presence in the room cannot be concealed as he had hoped.
hardly believe my ears. "It is
"When you went into Mrs. Inglethorp's room, was the door leading into Miss Cynthia's room bolted?"
The lapse of time, and her absence, will defeat all suspicion.
"Oh," she shrugged her shoulders, "if it is only village gossip that you mind!"
"He's anxious to keep them apart."
I suppose they have very strong poisons there?"
But, when I discovered that it was known all over the village that it was John who was attracted by the farmer's pretty wife, his silence bore quite a different interpretation.
But now there's only old Manning, and young William, and a new-fashioned woman gardener in breeches and such-like.
"You are very sure of his guilt?"
"But look here, how could he have got at the cocoa?
"If you like to take it that way, yes."
"No, no, you're getting morbid on the subject."
Still, the presence of the detectives brought the truth home to him more than anything else could have done.
To which my friend only made a rather irritating reply, urging me to use my own natural faculties.
Just as he was about to step down, he paused, and said rather hesitatingly: "I should like to make a suggestion if I may?"
Poirot was continuing: "The temperature on that day, messieurs, was 80 degrees in the shade.
Burnt corks they use mostly...though 'tis messy getting it off again.
John strode across the room, and lit the gas.
Lawrence would say no more, so I decided that I would descend from my high horse, and once more seek out Poirot at Leastways Cottage.
So the last hope of solving the mystery, by means of Mrs. Inglethorp's correspondence on the fatal evening, had to be abandoned.
He spread it out on the table.
He went down on his knees, examining it minutely...even going so far as to smell it.
"Are you in the habit of selling strychnine indiscriminately over the counter?"
"Yes; you see she went to the mater, and...Oh, here's Evie herself."
I do not believe that anyone could be so monstrous as to accuse me of what you say."
Poirot did not make his appearance the following morning, and there was no sign of the Scotland Yard men.
"Did nothing strike you as peculiar about it?"
I was quite honest with him.
We are face to face with an entirely new problem.
And you...you, my friend, have given it to me!"
This was news to me and glancing sideways at Poirot, I fancied that it was news to him as well.
"Perhaps you're right, Dorcas...yes...no...not now.
Now there is no murder without a motive."
"Send my coffee in here, Mary," she called.
And a very liberal gentleman too!
As I ran out to the tennis court a few moments later, I had to pass the open boudoir window, and was unable to help overhearing the following scrap of dialogue.
"I gave Lawrence your message," I said.
Thank you, mademoiselle; good morning."
Did he feel some secret stirring of fear, or was he confident that his crime would go unpunished?
"The moment has come," said Poirot thoughtfully, "and I do not know what to do.
I had the impression of a steel curtain coming down and blotting out the real woman.
her eyes, ice in her voice. I did
"Real evidence is usually vague and unsatisfactory.
Since you are so kind, let us go and have some breakfast."
I ought to know...my own father was a doctor.
Then, to my intense surprise, he shook his head decidedly.
She works in the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster, seven miles away."
Probably, at this minute, too, he hears the sounds below of Mr. Wells and John leaving the boudoir.
Now, what is the first instinct of the criminal?
He had heard or seen something that had affected him strongly...but what was it?
After lunch, Lawrence drew me aside, and asked if I was going down to see him.
He ran rapidly down the corridor to Cynthia's room.
I've some letters I must finish by post-time.
I made but a slight gesture"...I know Poirot's gestures..."with the left hand, and over went the table by the bed!" He looked
"I must confess that I see nothing particularly curious about it."
I had never seen him so upset.
With a dramatic gesture, he pointed to a large splash of candle grease on the floor by the writing-table.
not yield much. Only this."
I didn't hear what Mr. Inglethorp replied.
I had seen Lawrence in quite a different light that afternoon.
He would then produce his irreproachable alibi...and, hey presto, he was safe for life!"
And there are other possibilities.
Was it not plain to you that I was speaking of two entirely different persons?"
Why, that will, made on the afternoon of her death may......" But Poirot's shake of the head was so energetic that I stopped.
"Poirot, you old villain," I said, "I've half a mind to strangle you!
"What makes you think there was salt in it?"
"Oh, of course...but I don't see......" Poirot raised his hand.
"Then again," continued Poirot, "at the beginning, did I not repeat to you several times that I didn't want Mr. Inglethorp arrested now?
"No, I thank you, madame.
"I'll walk down to the village with you," said Mr. Inglethorp.
Mrs. Cavendish, of course, could not be called upon to give evidence against her husband.
"What do you think of that?"
"No, no, you are on a wrong tack there.
"It does not matter," said Poirot, not betraying any sign of disappointment.
"I dare say," observed Summerhaye sarcastically.
Her lips were set grimly together, and she carried a small suit-case.
She flung herself down on the ground beside John, and as I handed her a plate of sandwiches she smiled up at me.
I shook my head, unconvinced.
I glanced sideways at him.
"And well I know it, for he borrowed two skeins of my black wool to make it with!
Well, strychnine is a fairly rapid poison.
The little man appeared to be taking the whole house into his confidence, a proceeding of which I, for one, doubted the wisdom.
That is where I discovered my 'last link,' and I owe that very fortunate discovery to you."
But they were not satisfied.
He says that everything points to its being a simple case of heart failure."
"No," he said musingly, "I don't.
Such things naturally interest me."
But I was in a hurry, because Dorcas was out, and I thought maybe the cocoa itself was all right, and the salt had only gone on the tray.
He...it is not a pleasing thing for my pride, but it is the truth...tired of me very soon."
"Then why did you take it up?"
No notice is paid to her coming and going in the house.
"One must look at it logically."
"I need hardly ask what you are doing here, gentlemen," remarked Poirot.
Then, suddenly, he asked: "Are you a judge of finger-marks, my friend?"
Of course, he didn't want to come in...it was just after dinner...but Mr. Inglethorp insisted."
The fellow is an absolute outsider, anyone can see that.
"I have no authority to go through these papers.
She flung her head up proudly.
The anonymous note received by him was produced, and handed to the jury to examine.
"Do you think it would be such a disaster if they did meet?"
A mouse, or some such, must have nibbled the wire through.
"Hanging's too good for him.
He seemed to speak, and then checked himself.
If he's any sense, he won't stay here tamely and wait to be hanged."
"But...but I thought you thought so too?"
Are you sure you don't know what it means?"
"There is no perhaps about it.
John, who had gone into the house, now reappeared.
He does not employ the poison that night.
Miss Howard was swallowed up in an eager chorus of protests and good-byes.
His clothes, his beard, the glasses which hide his eyes...those are the salient points about his personal appearance.
We were running into Tadminster now, and Poirot directed the car to the "Analytical Chemist."
"Yes, time is an advantage if...if...there has been foul play."
There is, indeed, a fine collection there.
"Yes, sir, both me and Willum, she called."
As they all went out of the room, Poirot turned and made me a sign to follow him upstairs.
"Yes, that's it, and..." I waited to hear no more, but tore up the village to find Poirot.
It was a foregone conclusion that he would be suspected; but, to make it a sure thing there must be tangible proof...such as the actual buying of the poison, and that, with a man of the peculiar appearance of Mr. Inglethorp, was not difficult.
You are agitated; you are excited...it is but natural.
"No one would think of looking there," Poirot continued.
I must say......" But I stopped suddenly.
"Poirot," I said, "your gaiety does not deceive me.
In this case, surely, the truth was only too plain and apparent.
It occurred to me suddenly that I would go down to the village, and look up Bauerstein.
"Or, rather," pursued my friend imperturbably, "there was one."
"Then it was you, Mary, who destroyed the will?"
The Coroner, however, passed briskly to the next point, and Poirot drew a deep breath of relief.
And breaking from me, fled up the stairs.
Also, that she was equally in love with him.
John lowered his voice: "Have you ever thought, Hastings...it's a nightmare to me...who did it?
With a long drawn exclamation of ecstasy, Poirot led the way back to the morning-room.
It was John's younger brother, Lawrence Cavendish.
A faint spot of colour came into her cheek.
"Probably not, but do you notice anything that strikes you as peculiar about this box?"
I told him of Poirot's intense excitement on hearing that Dr. Bauerstein had been at Styles on the fatal night, and added: "He said twice: 'That alters everything.'
I watched the card house rising under his hands, story by story.
I tell you, mon ami, it puzzles me.
Now there was, of course, no bromide in Dr. Wilkins' prescription, but you will remember that I mentioned an empty box of bromide powders.
Let the cost be what it may."
I asked Poirot, in lively curiosity.
The whole household was aroused by now.
It occurs to nobody that Mrs. Cavendish has not arrived with the rest, but...and this is significant...I can find no one who saw her come from the other wing."
It would be announced in every newspaper on the morrow.
I saw nothing peculiar, however.
"Yes...you'll laugh at me......" "Not at all.
Lawrence, the younger, had been a delicate youth.
Hearing a slight noise in the West wing, she had peeped along the passage, and had seen Mr. John Cavendish knocking at Mrs. Inglethorp's door.
To make this part of my story clear, I append the following plan of the first floor of Styles.
I remembered the name as being that of the lawyer to whom Mrs. Inglethorp had written the night before.
"Still you are right in one thing.
"I have been admiring these flower beds.
"Then that arrangement will suit you?"
Poirot wished her good morning with Gallic politeness, and went on: "We have been looking through that chest, Dorcas.
Still, it's rather horrid when no one loves you, isn't it?"
The prisoner, returning to the house on Tuesday evening, had been authoritatively told that there had been a violent quarrel between Mr. and Mrs. Inglethorp.
"Excuse me, mademoiselle, one minute."
There are the death duties, of course, but half my father's money goes with the place, and Lawrence will stay with us for the present, so there is his share as well.
He rose from his knees, and walked slowly across to the mantelpiece, where he stood abstractedly fingering the ornaments, and straightening them...a trick of his when he was agitated.
It might, in fact, have been any postmark?"
As I walked away, I met an aged rustic, who leered at me cunningly.
But really, seriously, I am awfully drawn to it.
It was still damp, it exhaled a strong odour of coffee, and imbedded in the nap of the carpet I found some little splinters of china.
But to my intense surprise, on getting down early the next morning, and eagerly opening the newspapers, there was not a word about the arrest!
You may have noticed a sort of blur extending all across the picture.
"Really, Sir Ernest," protested the judge, "these questions are not relevant."
Still, I had a great respect for Poirot's sagacity...except on the occasions when he was what I described to myself as "foolishly pig-headed."
It would clear the air.
Come out on our little balcony.
But I am right in saying, am I not, that by your English law that will was automatically revoked when Mrs. Inglethorp remarried?"
Unfortunately she has locked herself in."
"I do not think, monsieur," said Poirot pointedly, "that you quite realize how terrible it may be...for you."
"Not now, not now, mon ami.
Did she care, or did she not?
"Messieurs, mesdames," said Poirot, with a flourish, "let me introduce you to the murderer, Mr. Alfred Inglethorp!"
"And, anyway," I said, with increasing coldness, "as Mrs. Inglethorp took her coffee upstairs with her, I do not see what you expect to find, unless you consider it likely that we shall discover a packet of strychnine on the coffee tray!"
That is very interesting...very interesting," murmured Poirot softly.
She just told Willum to go on his bicycle down to the village, and bring back a form of will, or such-like...I don't know what exactly...she wrote it down for him."
But I don't know that I ought......" Dorcas hesitated.
"No, I don't think so.
Well, my friend, you have seen the finger-marks...it remains to tell you the particular object on which they had been left."
